' AP890925-0009'
' AP-NR-09-25-89 0037EDT'
' r i PM-OneGermany 09-25 1121'
' PM-One Germany,1155'
' German Reunification Again Under Discussion as Changes Sweep Europe'
' Eds: Also in Monday AMs report .'
' An AP Extra'
' By KEVIN COSTELLOE'
' Associated Press Writer'
' FRANKFURT, West Germany (AP)'
" Three decades ago, a West German politician said German reunification was a ``sleeping lioness'' that would awake one day with a mighty roar."
' Now, there is growing speculation the awakening may be at hand to create a giant political and economic machine that could dominate Europe.'
" ``Reunification is coming closer, but I can't say whether it will take 10, 15 or 20 years,'' says West German conservative lawmaker Eduard Lintner."
" ``We have the impression that things are much more concrete than we could have imagined five years ago''."
" The daily sight of thousands of refugees fleeing East German leader Erich Honecker's hard-line Communist rule for the capitalist West has revived international interest in the debate."
" Once dismissed as a nostalgic daydream, the idea of German reunification has gotten a public nod from President Bush and something short of a categorical ``no'' from President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union."
' The idea makes East German leaders virtually apopletic.'
" ``If there were a free choice under the present circumstances in the German Democratic Republic (East Germany), certainly 80 percent to 90 percent would vote for national reunification with the Federal Republic of Germany,'' added the 44-year-old Lintner in an Associated Press interview."
' The West German constitution calls for a united Germany, but it has not been a paramount concern of the West Germans in the years since the ruins of Nazi Germany were divided into East and West at the end of World War II.'
' Full national reunification would completey rework the postwar European order mapped out by the conquering Allies.'
' It is a prospect that creates unease in Britain and France, and in Poland in the East bloc.'
" London's prestigious Sunday Times on Sept. 10 mapped out a possible scenario that includes massive troop reductions in Europe, Honecker's death and further Westernization of Poland and Hungary."
" ``Moscow unilaterally abolishes the Warsaw Pact after guarantees from Poland and Hungary they will not join other alliances,'' the Times' futuristic view continued."
" ``West Germany withdraws from NATO; and a referendum in both East and West Germany votes for reunification and neutrality''."
' That sort of talk is being heard more and more as Moscow loosens its hold on the East bloc and countries like the Soviet Union, Poland and Hungary explore democratic reforms.'
' The implications of pulling down the Berlin Wall and other barriers to link the two German states are enormous and, for many, ominous.'
' As much of Western Europe heads towards its own unification in 1992, the economic center of gravity would be shifted even further to the German side with a powerhouse of nearly 80 million people _ 61.1 million West Germans and 16.6 million East Germans.'
" West Germany is already Europe's largest exporting nation, and despite its many flaws East Germany's economy is the envy of many Soviet bloc neighbors."
' A unified Germany could become the political focal point of a continent already in flux, as democratic movements sweep parts of the Soviet bloc.'
" Older generations recall eerie echoes of Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler's boasting that he had brought about ``the unity of the German nation''."
' Eva Kulesza, head of research for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe at the French Institute of International Relations, says she believes that ``as far as public opinion there is new sort of mistrust toward Germany.'
' ``This new fear of Germany is linked to German economic trends.'
" Germany is much stronger, much more dynamic than France,'' she added."
' Since West Germany and East Germany are at the front lines of two competing alliances, any signs for eventual reunification would have to come from Washington and Moscow.'
" During a news conference last week in Montana, Bush said that reunification is a ``matter for the Germans to decide''."
" But he added: ``If that (reunification) was worked out between the Germanys, I do not think we should view that as bad for Western interests''."
" For his part, Gorbachev evaded the issue during a news conference in Bonn in June, saying only, ``the situation in Europe today was determined by historical realities''."
' Outside Germany, political leaders and commentators have been sharply divided on the issue.'
" ``In thinking about the German Question, we ought not to be governed by old prejudices and out-of-date assumptions,'' wrote commentator Peter Jenkins in London's The Independent."
" ``The Cold War was conducted in the name of freedom and, today, if the coming of freedom to East Germany brings a desire for unity which finds its echo in the Federal Republic, we ought not to be opposed''."
" Willy Brandt, the Social Democrat who sought greater ties to the East as chancellor in the 1970s, said German unity doesn't necessarily mean a single state although he called reunification a ``hypothesis that cannot be excluded''."
' As talk grows in the West, the positions against reunification almost seem to harden in East Germany, as people leave the country in near-record numbers.'
" More than 100,000 East Germans are expected to resettle in West Germany this year, leaving a gaping hole in the Communist nation's work force."
' Little is likely to change in East Germany as long as the 77-year-old Honecker and his aging comrades stay in power.'
" During a September 1987 visit to Bonn, Honecker called respect for Europe's present borders a basic condition of peace."
" ``Socialism and capitalism can't be any more united than fire and water,'' Honecker added on the issue of reunification."
" There are virtually no indications that Honecker's successors will be inclined to democratic reforms, let alone joining the capitalist West."
" The calls for reunification have already found a sympathetic ear among some leaders of the Polish Solidarity movement, in the country that suffered some of the Nazis' most brutal savagery."
" ``After all, the abnormal situation of the German nation overshadows the whole of Polish-German relations,'' member of Parliament Adam Michnik wrote on Monday in the pro-Solidarity daily newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza, which he edits."
' The renewed talk of reunification is recalling the nearly prophetic words of Reinhold Maier, a prominent West German state governor who later went on to head the centrist Free Democratic Party.'
' ``Reunification is resting in our midst like a sleeping lioness.'
" Tired and weak, indecisive people in West Germany are trying not to disturb her sleep,'' Maier predicted in 1955."
" ``The lioness will one day wake up, blink, snap her her tail and start to roar''."
" Still, many in both East and West still agree with the 1967 quip by Nobel Prize-winning French author Francois Mauriac: ``I love Germany so much, I'm delighted that there are two of them.''"
' AP891111-0064'
' AP-NR-11-11-89 1140EST'
' u w AM-GermanReunification Bjt 11-11 0725'
' AM-German Reunification, Bjt,700'
' East German Changes Spark Interest in Reunification'
' By GEORGE GEDDA'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
' The concept of a reunified Germany enjoys support from the United States and other countries but some analysts believe the consequences of a political and economic German superstate could have an unsettling effect throughout Europe.'
' The lifting of travel restrictions by East Germany on Thursday has breathed new life into the idea of a single German state, drawing expressions of support from the Bush administration and others.'
' But Soviet affairs expert William Hyland says that despite these assertions, a reunified Germany is ``really terrifying to most of the countries involved, to the West Germans, to the United States, Soviet Union, Poland and Czechoslovakia.'
" ``No one really wants German unity except the East German people, and they turn out to be the decisive factor,'' says Hyland, a one-time top aide to former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger."
' It was just 2 months ago when ceremonies were held commemorating the 50th anniversary of the start of World War II, a time when a unified Germany initiated what was to become the slaughter of more than 50 million people.'
' While a recurrence of that nightmare seems remote at best under any scenario, an undivided Germany could become the unchallenged economic and political force on the continent.'
' The official U.S. policy on the reunification question was outlined last Thursday by State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher.'
" ``Reunification has been supported by NATO and by the United States for 40 years, and our strongly held view is that reunification or reconciliation between the peoples of Germany must take place in peace and freedom,'' he said."
" As former National Security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski sees it, the reunification issue will become ``very, very active'' if a freely elected government takes power in East Germany."
' That possibility has been mentioned by East German leaders as part of the ongoing reform process.'
" Brzezinski asks: ``How do we arrange for the unification of Germany, so that it doesn't become destabilizing, so it isn't a threat to Germany's neighbors _ France, Poland, Czechoslovakia?"
' ``These are the issues we really have to very hard think about.'
' We have to think of a new structure between NATO and the Warsaw Pact.'
" That is our new agenda''."
' Theodore Sorenson, a top aide to President John F. Kennedy when the Berlin Wall was built in 1961, says he hopes a reunited Germany will be forged as part of a reunited Europe.'
" Reunification, Sorenson says, ``will pose problems, because we couldn't afford to have a reunited Germany outside the Western Alliance."
" The Soviet Union couldn't afford to have a reunited Germany as part of the Western Alliance."
" ``That's why I hope it will be a reunited Europe within which the reunited Germany can take place,'' Sorenson says."
' Bernard Rogers, a former commander of allied forces in Europe, does not think reunification is inevitable.'
' Some form of federation, he believes, is more likely.'
' Rogers notes that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has said the nations of eastern Europe can do what they want so long as they stay in the Warsaw Pact.'
" ``If East Germany stays in the Warsaw Pact, NATO, with the best of its ability, would try to prevent full reunification; maybe a confederation between the two Germanys, but not a full reunification,'' Rogers says."
' Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, points out that German reunification is a sensitive question for the Soviets.'
" ``Soviet policy is based upon preventing a reunified, economically strong and certainly militarily strong Germany,'' Mitchell says."
" ``There must be some serious apprehension in the Soviet Union today, because the events of the last couple of days certainly has made reunification more likely''."
' The Bush administration says it does not foresee the dismantling of NATO under any circumstances but, according to Hyland, the reunification of Germany could mean the demise of the alliance.'
" ``It may also mean the end of Western European unity, because both have been based on a divided Germany and a divided Europe,'' Hyland says."
' ``If that comes to an end and 80 million Germans are united in a confederation or a single state, it changes the entire map of Europe.'
" ``It changes all of the geopolitics and, in effect, ends the period we've been in since ..."
" the beginning of the war.''"
' AP891202-0154'
' AP-NR-12-02-89 0241EST'
' r i AM-Germany-NATO 12-02 0378'
' AM-Germany-NATO,0384'
' West German Leader Tries to Reassure U.S. Senators on NATO'
' With AM-East Germany'
' By TERRENCE PETTY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' BONN, West Germany (AP)'
' Chancellor Helmut Kohl assured visiting U.S. senators on the eve of a superpower summit that West Germany will not forsake NATO to reunite with East Germany, one of the senators said Friday.'
" ``He strongly affirmed under no circumstances would a reunified Germany be neutral,'' Sen. Richard G. Lugar, head of the American delegation, said of the Friday meeting with Kohl."
" Asked whether he thought the West Germans were committed to staying in the NATO military alliance of Western nations, the Indiana Republican said: ``Without any reservations''."
' There is growing discussion in West Germany about German reunification as a result of sweeping social and political reforms underway in East Germany.'
' There has been speculation that West Germany might someday be tempted to agree to neutrality if the Kremlin stipulates it as the price for reunification.'
' Kohl on Tuesday unveiled a 10-point proposal with German reunification as its ultimate goal.'
" But the Soviets, who suffered millions of deaths fighting a unified Germany in World War II, have said the idea of German reunification is ``dangerous and unrealistic''."
' President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev are to begin a shipboard summit off Malta on Saturday.'
' The dramatic events in East Germany and whirlwind reforms elsewhere in the East bloc are likely to be a main topic of their talks.'
' Lugar came to Bonn with eight other members of the U.S.'
" Senate's arms control observer group."
" He said the purpose of the trip was to ``visit with the Germans on their judgments about all of these procedures that are going on''."
' U.S. Ambassador Vernon A. Walters joined the senators for their 75-minute closed-door talks with Kohl.'
' The senators also met with Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher and Defense Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg during the day.'
" Lugar said Kohl told the Americans that reunification would be a ``procedure that depends on many events in Germany and Europe'' and that the Soviet Union and the United States have a role to play."
" Lugar said of Kohl's proposals, ``There is much to work with there with regard to the future of Germany and the future of the (NATO) alliance.''"
' AP891207-0158'
' AP-NR-12-07-89 2156EST'
' r i AM-Poland-Germany 12-07 0419'
' AM-Poland-Germany,0433'
' Poland Says Any German Reunification Must Be Gradual'
' By JOHN DANISZEWSKI'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WARSAW, Poland (AP)'
" The government on Thursday allowed for the possibility of a reunified Germany, but said such a state must be formed gradually and respect Poland's borders."
" In the Solidarity government's first definitive statement on the issue, Foreign Minister Krzysztof Skubiszewski told Parliament the two German states could be joined as part of the process of uniting Europe."
" He said German reunification ``cannot go ahead'' of the reunification of Europe."
" ``A reunited Germany will not be created tomorrow or the day after tomorrow,'' Skubiszewski said."
" ``Fears and concerns appearing every now and then, including in Poland, are unjustified, although alertness is recommended''."
" Asked about German reunification at a news conference in Gdansk, Solidarity labor leader Lech Walesa said he prefers ``no political changes in Europe, but there should be all kinds of economic integrations''."
' Western European countries have agreed to form an economic union by the end of 1992.'
' Sweeping democratic reforms have taken hold in East Germany in the past several weeks under the pressure of mass protests, spurring talk of reuniting the two German states divided at the end of World War II.'
' West Germany has proposed a plan for greater unity, but East German leaders reject reunification.'
' The specter of a powerful, reunited Germany has troubed many Poles, especially the older ones who recall the 1939 Nazi invasion of Poland that began World War II.'
' A reported surge in anti-Polish sentiment in East Germany in recent weeks has heightened Polish anxieties.'
" Skubiszewski's speech seemed designed to reassure Poles that the government does not see unification in the near future and will insist on Poland's current borders."
" Skubiszewski faulted West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's program for gradual German reunification, offered last week, for not making clear that reunification would respect the existing border between Poland and East Germany."
' Some right-wing West German politicians have called for recovering the 40,000 square miles of territory that Germany lost to Poland at the end of World War II.'
' The territory is about one-third of present-day Poland.'
' East Germany and West Germany each separately has recognized the border, but there has been no official assurance that a reunified Germany would also acknowledge the border.'
" ``One can only unite within established borders and without territorial arguments,'' said Skubiszewski."
' He also said German reunification is unlikely as long as West Germany belongs to NATO and East Germany to the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact military alliance .'
' AP891212-0062'
' AP-NR-12-12-89 1148EST'
' u i PM-EastGermany 2ndLd-Writethru 12-12 0648'
' PM-East Germany, 2nd Ld-Writethru,a0502,0663'
' Party Admits Socialism Failed; Reunification Splits Democracy Movement'
" Eds: SUBS 3rd graf `Also today'... with 1 graf to UPDATE with Baker meeting with Modrow."
" Pickup 4th graf `In another...'"
' LaserPhoto LEI2'
' By TONY CZUCZKA'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LEIPZIG, East Germany (AP)'
" The Communist Party today admitted that East Germany's socialist system has failed, and expressed support for a type of partnership with West Germany."
" The statement in the Communist Party newspaper Neues Deutschland was one of the bluntest official assessments to date of the country's increasingly troubled situation."
' It came a day after shouting matches broke out over German reunification during pro-democracy protests in Leipzig and Dresden.'
' Also today, Secretary of State James A. Baker III urged caution on the reunification issue.'
' He visited the Berlin Wall and met with West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and East German Premier Hans Modrow.'
" In another development, the largest opposition movement, New Forum, announced it will take part as a political party in the country's first free elections, scheduled for May 6."
" Neues Deutschland, in proposing a new party platform, said ``socialism has definitely failed as a social system in our country'' and acknowledged that the ``popular revolutionary movement'' of the past weeks had led to the scrapping of the old system."
" The paper repeated the Communists' promise to work for a new ``democratic socialism'' within a multi-party system."
' During the past few weeks, both Germanys have increased business and cultural ties but have debated what labels to use for closer relations, since the East Berlin government rejects calls for reunification.'
" Neues Deutschland urged a ``qualified partnership of both German states'' but rejected any suggestions of resolving the ``German question''."
" During Monday's demonstrations that drew more than 200,000 protesters, the largest of them the now-weekly rally in the southern city of Leipzig, speakers warned that the reunification issue could fracture the popular movement that has forced the ruling Communists into swift retreat."
" One sign said ``Germany United Fatherland,'' using a phrase from the West German national anthem."
" Others, opposing reunification, urged ``No Fourth Reich'' and no transformation of East Germany into West Germany's ``plantation''."
' ADN said 40,000 people demonstrated for reunification in Karl-Marx-Stadt, while several thousand people split into pro- and anti-reunification groups at a rally in Dresden.'
' Smaller rallies were also reported by ADN in Schwerin, Potsdam, Neubrandenburg and Halle.'
' The agency did not say if reunification played a role in those protests.'
' The rallies came shortly after the four victorious World War II Allies met in West Berlin to discuss the latest developments in East Germany and Berlin _ the divided city that they still technically administer.'
' The meeting brought together officials of the United States, France and Britain with Soviet officials, who have increasingly expressed concern over calls in both Germanys to reunite the country.'
' Kohl has advocated a confederation of the two Germanys, to be followed by eventual reunification.'
" But he stressed to reporters on Monday that ``the goal of our policies is not to create an overpowering Germany in the middle of Europe''."
' The West German leader advocates a reunified Germany that would respect the security needs _ and borders _ of the rest of Europe.'
' Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, during a Central Committee in Moscow on Saturday, urged the West not to try to influence developments in East Germany.'
' East Germany is a front line of defense for the Soviets, who have nearly 400,000 troops in the country.'
' ADN said Gorbachev would meet soon with Gregor Gysi, a reformer who was chosen East German Communist Party chief on Saturday.'
" Gysi's rise followed the ouster of two sets of Communist leaders."
' Since East Germans began agitating for an end to Communist domination two months ago, public pressure has forced the opening of the Berlin Wall and pushed the Communists to promise free elections and relinquish their political monopoly .'
' AP900130-0202'
' AP-NR-01-30-90 2203EST'
' u i AM-Soviet-Germany 1stLd-Writethru a0634 01-30 0637'
' AM-Soviet-Germany, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0634,0655'
' Gorbachev Leaves Door Open to German Reunification'
' Eds: INSERT 3 grafs after 17th graf, According to ...'
' UPDATING with Lambsdorff remarks.'
' Picks up 18th, `Modrow invited.. .'
' With AM-East Germany, Bjt'
' By ANDREW KATELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MOSCOW (AP)'
' President Mikhail S. Gorbachev met Tuesday with East German Premier Hans Modrow and appeared to be more open toward eventual German reunification.'
" Modrow told reporters after the meeting that Gorbachev ``did not rule out such a prospect in the future, and at the same time did not venture to set some time limits for that''."
' Earlier, the Kremlin chief said any such decisions must include the four Allied powers and take into account European opinions.'
" ``The development of events in the world, in East Germany, in the Soviet Union demand deep consideration and an analytical approach to deciding this problem,'' he said in remarks reported by the official news agency Tass."
" ``Time itself is acting on this process, giving it dynamism,'' Gorbachev said."
" ``We have to act responsibly and not decide this important question on the streets''."
" Tass said Gorbachev emphasized that talks about restructuring relations between the two Germanys must involve ``all directly interested governments''."
" Asked by an East German correspondent about his attitude toward reunification, Gorbachev said the question was not unexpected and that ``no one can cast doubt'' on the reasonableness of asking it."
' However, the English-language Tass translation indicated Gorbachev could have meant there were no doubts about reunification itself.'
" Gorbachev's position was similar to that adopted by Communists in East Berlin on Tuesday."
" For the first time, the Communists acknowledged German unity as a long-term goal but said it must be imbedded in the process of overcoming Europe's overall divisions."
' The Soviet Union traditionally has strongly opposed any talk of German reunification, but Gorbachev has softened that position in adopting a policy that has allowed radical reform in Eastern Europe.'
' Soviets say the question of German reunification is to be decided in the future.'
' Gorbachev, in comments to reporters after meeting French President Francois Mitterrand in Kiev in December, reiterated his view that the existence of two German states is a fact based on the outcome of World War II.'
' But he added, ``The present situation is the result of specific historical events, a specific historical process on this continent.'
" So, history should decide the future of this continent''."
" ``I don't think it is a topical question today."
" A different approach may create a situation that would complicate the entire European process, including the relations between the two German states,'' Gorbachev said."
' Modrow said the two Germanys could work toward confederation in phases with no time limit.'
' He said he agreed with Gorbachev that reunification must be decided not only by East and West Germany, but all of Europe.'
' According to Tass, the Soviet leader said any action on reunification must not infringe on the interests of either East or West Germany, the four Allied powers: France, Britain, the United States or the Soviet Union, or anyone else in Europe.'
" Count Otto Lambsdorff, head of West Germany's Free Democratic Party, a partner in the governing coalition, said Tuesday in London that Gorbachev has adopted ``a more positive attitude'' toward German reunification."
" In a TV interview on Britain's Channel 4, he also urged ``economic union'' within 18 months as a prelude to full union of West and East Germany."
" Lambsdorff said that because of East Germany's political instability it had only two choices _ unification or chaos."
' Modrow invited Gorbachev and Premier Nikolai I. Ryzhkov to visit East Germany and they accepted, Tass reported.'
' Modrow arrived in Moscow late Monday.'
" A Communist, he has moved forward the country's first free elections from May to March 18 and brought the opposition into a coalition that will govern until then ."
' AP900131-0068'
' AP-NR-01-31-90 0930EST'
' r i PM-EastGermany 01-31 0584'
' PM-East Germany,0602'
" West Germans Praise Gorbachev's Comments on Reunification"
' By TERRENCE PETTY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' EAST BERLIN (AP)'
' West German officials and media today praised Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev for softening his view on German reunification and said it could give hope to disheartened East Germans.'
' Disgraced former Communist Party leader Erich Honecker was released from prison Tuesday night after justice officials determined he was too frail to withstand the rigors of imprisonment while awaiting trial on treason charges.'
" Gorbachev said Tuesday in Moscow that he believed one Germany was likely in the future, but he added that Germans ``should not decide this important question on the streets''."
' He referred to the growing number of demonstrations in East Germany in support of reunification.'
" Gorbachev's statement was his most tolerant yet on the subject of a single Germany, which has been opposed by Communists for more than 40 years."
' East German Communists on Tuesday endorsed for reunification for the first time.'
" In West Germany, Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher told West German Radio that Gorbachev had ``correctly analyzed'' the situation and again shown his political skill."
" West German officials and media praised Gorbachev's view as ``realistic'' and described it as an important sign of hope for East Germans who have lost faith in their government."
" Communist leaders launched their uphill campaign for March 18 parliamentary elections with a news conference to unveil their ``European concept'' that aims for a united and demilitarized Europe."
" Party ideologist Peter Brie said the Communists support ``the togetherness of the German nation,'' and urged a thoughtful and measured approach to reunification."
' In an interview with the West German Bild newspaper, party leader Gregor Gysi complained that the reunification drive is moving too quickly.'
' Asked if the Communists oppose reunification, Gysi told the newspaper: ``No, not at all.'
' This process cannot be stopped any more.'
" But it is irresponsible to do things in such a way now as if it were possible tomorrow''."
' The reunification issue promises to dominate the election campaign that will seat a new leadership in less than seven weeks.'
' Increasing numbers of East Germans have demonstrated for union with wealthy and prosperous West Germany as their own economy tumbles and an exodus of skilled workers continues unchecked.'
' More than 340,000 people fled East Germany last year, having lost hope that their spartan living conditions would improve.'
' The devastating flight has included as many as 2,500 people daily since Jan. 1.'
' The Communists are widely distrusted because of corruption scandals that have surfaced since the peaceful pro-democracy revolt last fall, and because they carry the blame for leading East Germany into its current economic and political crises.'
" The man most blamed for the country's problems, Honecker, was set free after an East Berlin court rejected a request that he be kept in prison until his trial in March."
' He was jailed Monday.'
" The court decided that ``despite the severity of the charges against Honecker, the state of the accused's health does not permit imprisonment,'' the official ADN news agency reported."
' A spokesman for Chief Prosecutor Hans-Juergen Joseph promised that the investigation against Honecker would proceed.'
' ADN said the court acted on advice from two doctors who examined Honecker independently.'
' Honecker, 77, underwent surgery on Jan. 8 to remove a malignant kidney tumor.'
' Honecker was ousted from the leadership on Oct. 18, after massive pro-democracy demonstrations.'
' He was expelled from the Communist Party in December and has since been accused of treason and abusing his power .'
' AP900210-0106'
' AP-NR-02-10-90 1607EST'
' r i AM-EastGermany 02-10 0419'
' AM-East Germany,0434'
' Thousands Demonstrate for Unification'
' With AM-Germany-Soviet, Bjt'
' By NESHA STARCEVIC'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WEST BERLIN (AP)'
' About 20,000 East Germans, many carrying West German flags, demonstrated Saturday for speedy German reunification, the official East German news agency ADN said.'
' As the demonstrators rallied in the southern city of Plauen, West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said in Moscow that Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had given him an unequivocal promise to respect German reunification.'
" Kohl declared it a ``very good day for Germany''."
' Kohl and Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher also disclosed that they expect a reunification plan with agreement of the World War II Allies to be ready before the end of the year for presentation to a pan-European summit meeting.'
" Calls for German reunification have increased since the ouster of the hard-line Communist leadership and the opening of East Germany's borders during the fall pro-democracy movement."
' Despite reforms, nearly 2,000 East Germans, most of them skilled workers, continue to leave their homeland daily, crippling an economy already troubled by strikes and absenteeism.'
" Earlier Saturday, West German Finance Minister Theo Waigel said the East German economy was in a ``sorrowful state'' and urged the East German government to release details on its financial situation."
" Waigel's comments came after a day after a high-ranking official in Bonn warned that East Germany is rapidly approaching insolvency."
" ``Things are escalating,'' Waigel said in an interview with West Berlin radio."
' ``The economy is in a sorrowful state.'
" The political authority is crumbling''."
" He said the Bonn government believes East Germany's foreign debt stands at $18 billion."
" ``If the situation has changed, the East German government must say so,'' said Waigel, a conservative who has been pushing for establishment of a common currency for the two states."
' Also Saturday, more than 100 East Germans protested in front of the Soviet Embassy in East Berlin against the stationing of Soviet helicopters in their country, ADN said.'
" ADN said the demonstrators held signs saying ``Gorbi, what about disarmament''? and ``Tanks out, helicopters in''?"
' The protesters, from the East German town of Prenzlau, claimed the Soviets had backed out of disarmament plans by replacing a tank unit that had been stationed at a military base there with helicopters, ADN reported.'
" According to ADN, the demonstrators, who came from church and citizens' groups as well as from the town council, issued a statement calling for civilian use of the base."
' Prenzlau, a town of 22,000, is located about 50 miles north of Berlin .'
' AP900214-0157'
' AP-NR-02-14-90 1927EST'
' r w AM-Germany-Holocaust 02-14 0385'
' AM-Germany-Holocaust,360'
' Jewish Leader Seeks to Discuss Reunification with Germans'
' With AM-The German Question, Bjt'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
" The chairman of the Simon Wisenthal Center has asked to meet with the leaders of West and East Germany to discuss ``the great fear that German reunification brings to the community of victims of Nazism''."
" ``I must tell you I am not among those in the cheering section applauding the rush towards German reunification,'' Rabbi Marvin Hier wrote Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany and Prime Minister Hans Modrow of East Germany."
" ``However, if that is the inevitable course, let us at least place on record our concerns,'' he said."
' Hier is the founder of the center, headquartered in Los Angeles, which seeks to keep alive the memory of the Nazi persecution of Jews in Germany and Nazi-conquered lands.'
' In nearly identical letters, he asked to meet with Kohl during his forthcoming trip to Washington and with Modrow in Germany next month.'
' The letters were made available Wednsday to The Associated Press.'
" ``You are undoubtedly aware,'' he wrote both leaders, ``of the great fear that German reunification brings to the community of victims of Nazism''."
' ``It is not an irrational fear of the kind that one explains away as the nightmares of victims who remain locked into their past and lose all perspective of present reality.'
" ``The fears are real because those who bear the scars of the last `unified Germany' do not see their concerns being addressed in the current reunification discussions betwen world leaders''."
' Hier listed 10 points he wanted to raise.'
" Among them were a program to teach German schoolchildren about the annhilation of the Jews; the creation of an agency to monitor and prosecute hate groups; the continuation of the ``special relationship'' now existing between West Germany and Israel; the convening of a 1992 conference of world leaders on the 50th anniversary of the conference at which ``the final solution'' was developed; the establisment of a German commission to protect Holocaust sites; the banning of terrorist organizations that ``have enjoyed respectablity in East Germany;'' a cultural exchange program between German and Jewish organizations; German television and radio programs on the reconciliation; restitution payments to the families and victims of Nazism, and a German commitment to revitalize former synagogues in East German territory ."
' AP900215-0013'
' AP-NR-02-15-90 0229EST'
' r w PM-TheGermanQuestion Bjt 02-15 0800'
' PM-The German Question, Bjt,790'
' A Single Germany: No Fear of Jackboots, But Worries Nonetheless'
' By MIKE FEINSILBER'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
' Historians say the world need not fear that German jackboots will echo again on European pavements, but some still see the rush toward German reunification as a setback _ a step away from the integration of Europe.'
' For the most part, the historians say an East Germany collapsing into chaos represents a greater threat to stability than a united German state.'
" ``The West Germans are moving ahead not out of nationalistic fervor, but a perceived need to deal with a crisis,'' said Henry Ashby Turner of Yale, author of ``The Two Germanies Since 1945''."
" ``There is no such a thing as indelible national character,'' Turner said."
" ``I don't think there is any chance that the young men of Germany are going to slip out of their Adidas running shoes and pull on jackboots and start running around saying, `Heil''!"
' He was one of several experts in German history discussing the implications of reunification following the decision Tuesday by the four World War II allies _ the United States, Britain, France and the Soviet Union _ to accept the reunification of a Germany they divided 45 years ago.'
" University of Chicago historian Michael Geyer, a native of Germany, said he feared the creation of a ``strong, sovereign nation in the center of Europe'' could reverse a more important development _ the 40-year drive toward an integrated Europe in which industries, banks, trade unions and even government ministries have been collaborating across borders."
" ``The East German state is collapsing,'' said Geyer."
' ``So something has to happen very dramatically.'
' But they have a choice _ the Europeans and Germans and Americans.'
" Do they want to opt for the European card or for the German card? I think they are opting for the German card''."
" ``I hear these days very little about what Gorbachev called `the house of Europe,''' he said."
" The result of a dominant ``uncomfortably strong'' German state, Geyer added, could be a setback to the diminishment of national borders."
' It could also mean, he said, that American troops might have to stay in Europe as a counterweight to Germany.'
" ``If I had my druthers reunifications would have happened after 1992, after the integration of the West German economy into the economy of Western Europe,'' said Charles J."
' Herber of George Washington University, expressing similar concern.'
" ``Then there would have been fewer chances for German adventurers,'' he said."
" West Germans were aware of their European neighbors' misgivings, said Richard Breitman of American University, and so they presented reunification within the context of European integration."
' They wanted to avoid arousing fear of a united Germany again dominating Europe.'
" ``Even if the history did not exist, there would be fears of that kind,'' he said."
" ``We're dealing not just with rational calculation but a whole host of emotional memories''."
" For all that, Breitman said, ``One Germany is not only inevitable, but given the successful record of West Germany over the last 40 years, my feeling is it is better than having a regime in chaos''."
" ``The only alternative to reunification,'' added Turner, is an East Germany in ruins, ``a basket case, a Bangladesh of Europe''."
' He said Germans have ``no significant interest in territorial revisions.'
" Those misgivings are misplaced''."
' Gerhard Weinberg of the University of North Carolina, considered a leading historian of the Nazi era, cautioned that reunification, if mishandled, could prove explosive.'
' While the people of West Europe have gotten over nationalistic distrusts, East Europeans, living in closed societies, have not, he said, and fear of Germany is a reality in East Europe and Russia, he said.'
" ``I don't think the Germans are heading for Moscow again, but we have to give people _ and the Germans have to give people _ time to think this through and get used to it."
" ... Mishandled, reunification could scare one or the other of the participants into starting something and scare others and goodness knows where it would end''."
" Gordon Craig, emeritus professor at Stanford, said the division of Germany has been the basis of a peace settlement ``which worked pretty well'' but was ``abnormal and sooner or later had to be corrected''."
" German reunification, said Craig, gives the world the chance to build a new international system, one that ``will prevent the use of international violence''."
" He added, ``We have to be careful that we don't fall back into the kind of system that existed before the Second World War, a Europe filled with nations that were suffering various grievances, rivalries, disputed frontiers, driven by what they considered to be legitimate reasons but pitted against each other _ the sort of things that gave rise to Hitler in 1933.''"
' AP900321-0057'
' AP-NR-03-21-90 0648EST'
' r a PM-Jews-Reunification 03-21 0347'
' PM-Jews-Reunification,0356'
' Jewish Leaders To Meet in Berlin on German Reunification'
' By CATHERINE CROCKER'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
" The Berlin villa where the Nazi leadership met to implement the ``final solution'' against Europe's Jewish population will be the site of a World Jewish Congress conference on German reunification."
' The New York-based organization announced Tuesday that the meeting is scheduled for May 8, the 45th anniversary of V-E Day.'
" ``The world is expecting a Jewish statement on reunification,'' said Edgar Bronfman, the president of the World Jewish Congress."
" ``I think that the place where they decided on the `final solution' is the right place to have such a meeting, and the anniversary of the victory in Europe seems to be the right day''."
' Some 100 members of the World Jewish Congress from about 70 countries will attend the conference at the villa in Wannsee, Berlin, where on Jan. 20, 1942, high German government and party officials adopted a plan to exterminate the Jews.'
' ``Jews have a right to state a moral position on German reunification and we will make a moral statement.'
" And part of that moral statement is to see that it (the Holocaust) doesn't happen again,'' Bronfman said."
" In the long run, he said, a united Germany can be ``a very positive thing'' for Europe, but certain precautions must be taken to prevent a repeat of history."
" For example, Germany's borders ``must be sealed in cement,'' and the country should not be allowed nuclear weapons, he said."
' Bronfman said he does not fear a resurgence of anti-Semitism once the two Germanys are united.'
' In fact, he said, reunification might cause a decline in anti-Jewish feelings.'
" ``Now that reunification is about to be a fact, they won't be blaming the Jews'' for a divided Germany, Bronfman explained."
' The conference will convene May 6 and a formal declaration on German reunification will be issued May 8.'
" It will be the first meeting ever held on German soil by the World Jewish Congress, which was founded in 1936 in response to Hitler's threats against Jews ."
' FT923-6509'
' _AN-CHZBBACDFT'
' 920824'
' FT 24 AUG 92 / Letter: The Bundesbank is led to the dock'
' From Mr HOWARD FLIGHT'
' Sir, The argument for an independent central bank is that it should be free of party political interference, not that it should conduct monetary policy without regard to national, regional or global interests.'
' Whatever policy the Kohl government followed over reunification, it was bound to unleash a large federal deficit and inflationary pressures in Germany.'
" As the western German population is now aware, German reunification needs a strong, growing west German economy to finance the subsidisation of eastern Germans' living standards until there is a sustained upswing in the east - even if at the cost of higher German inflation than the Bundesbank would wish."
' In Europe as a whole, very high real interest rates threaten to turn recession into depression.'
' The governments of Europe have been remarkably patient with the Bundesbank, although it is threatening nearly 10 years of European effort for greater economic and political integration.'
' Surely there must be compromise of some economic habits to achieve the latter?'
' It is ironic that, just when German reunification presented a short-term reason for Germany to shift its anti-inflationary economic and monetary priorities, accommodating European convergence, Bundesbank intransigence is threatening the EMU commitment.'
' Beyond Europe, the dominant economic forces are strongly disinflationary.'
' But Germany is the one economy which, for reasons of reunification, could afford a more relaxed stand on the inflationary front.'
" Yet Mr Otmar Issing, the Bundesbank's chief economist, advises there are no grounds for a cut in Germany's interest rates."
' This, despite the unreliability of German money supply data.'
' The German government might point out to the Bundesbank that monetary targets might be achievable only at the cost of many more than 3m unemployed in Germany, of the destruction of the EMU programme and global depression.'
' A DM exchange rate adjustment within the ERM is not the answer to the problems.'
' We need a prolonged low-interest-rate German reunification boom.'
' The European currency bloc is overvalued against the dollar and yen as a result of Bundesbank interest rate policies.'
' And this is aggravating recession.'
' A future European-wide central bank must clearly - like the US Federal Reserve - be more accountable in the broader European political and economic interest.'
' The governments and central banks of Europe and the G7 block - including the Kohl administration - should pressurise the Bundesbank, and be prepared to consider constitutional changes if necessary, to halt this idiocy.'
" Howard Flight, managing director, Guinness Flight Global Asset Management, Lighterman's Court, 5 Gainsford Street, Tower Bridge, London SE1 2NE"
' The Financial Times'
' London Page 11'
' LA021290-0043'
' 175174'
' February 12, 1990, Monday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk'
' 461 words'
" 'WAY IS FREE' FOR GERMAN REUNIFICATION, KOHL SAYS"
' By WILLIAM TUOHY, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' BONN'
' West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl declared on his return from Moscow on Sunday that "the way is now free" for German reunification .'
' His meeting with Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev convinced him, he told West German radio, that the two German states should "enter into negotiations as quickly as possible" after the March 18 East German election .'
' Kohl will meet with East German Prime Minister Hans Modrow on Tuesday and Wednesday in Bonn to discuss immediate steps in economic cooperation, including monetary union, to prevent the collapse of the faltering East German economy .'
' "Political and economic union go hand in hand," Kohl said .'
' He said that immediate steps must be taken on the economic front to "stop the hemorrhage of East Germans to the Federal Republic and keep them in their heimat," or home, in East Germany .'
' Kohl said that his talks with Gorbachev  who told him that reunification is a matter for the Germans themselves to decide  could lead to an "economic breakthrough" in East Germany, which in turn could provide a "push forward" for all of Europe .'
' Asked how soon the two Germanys could merge, Kohl declared that the March election has to come first, and "then I think it will all go very quickly" .'
' The chancellor said that almost all of the political parties and opposition groups in East Germany now support reunification.'
' And after the election, he said, "they will want to put their programs into practice quickly" .'
' Gorbachev inquired about plans by West German politicians to campaign in East Germany, Kohl said, adding that the Soviet leader did not appear to be upset about such political activity .'
" West Germany's Social Democratic Party is expected to campaign heavily in East Germany in support of a fledging branch of the party that has taken a surprisingly strong lead in public opinion polls ."
' Major members of the party, including former Chancellor Willy Brandt, are scheduled to appear at rallies on behalf of the East German Social Democrats .'
' With the surge of the East German Social Democrats, political analysts are pointing to the strange role they could play in the ultimate political fate of Kohl .'
" Ever since reunification became a blazing issue, Kohl's standing in West German opinion polls has risen, and if the national elections, now scheduled for December, were held today, he would have a good chance of leading his Christian Democratic Union to victory ."
' But if the two Germanys are fused before the West Germany election in December, the growing number of Social Democratic voters in what today is East Germany  who would presumably be allowed to vote in December  could easily tip the balance away from the Christian Democrats, pushing Kohl out of the government leadership .'
' KOHL, HELMUT; REUNIFICATION; EAST GERMANY  FOREIGN RELATIONS  WEST GERMANY; USSR  FOREIGN RELATIONS  WEST GERMANY; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S'
' WSJ890922-0113'
' = 890922'
' 890922-0113 .'
' East German Exodus Sparks Discussion @ On the Possibility of Reuniting Germany @  @ By Terence Roth @ Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal'
' 09/22/89'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)'
' EUROP FREST'
' FRANKFURT, West Germany'
' The mass emigration of thousands of disaffected East Germans has rekindled reunification talk in West Germany, where some legislators plan to begin exploring the possiblity of reuniting the two Germanys.'
' No one is predicting a date for a possible reunification.'
' Proponents acknowledge the risks of assuming too much of East Bloc reform trends, and most hedge their thoughts with careful references to Washington and Moscow.'
" Yet growing signs of ferment in East Germany have given Chancellor Helmut Kohl's government reason to consider the possibilities."
' Eduard Lintner, parliamentary speaker on German affairs for the joint Christian Democrat and Christrian Socialist caucus in the Bundestag, said his committee has placed reunification on its October agenda.'
" He said the sessions, which will include government officials and outside experts, hopefully can devise reunification models to discuss with West Germany's Western allies, particularly the U.S."
' "It has become clear to the world that the Communist system in East Germany is in trouble," Mr. Lintner said.'
' "The time has come for us to show our allies, but also reform-minded people in the East, that German reunification is no longer just a theory but a subject requiring a serious appraisal of how it could come about".'
' "There are still a number of imponderables," Mr. Linter conceded.'
' "For instance, we want the federal government to approach our allies and get their thoughts on the reunification topic".'
" The U.S. ambassador to Bonn, Vernon A. Walters, earlier this month reaffirmed Washington's policy of supporting a German reunification based on free, democratic elections."
' But Mr. Walters caused a stir by predicting that reunion could occur in the relatively near future.'
" Emerging opposition to uncompromising Communist rule in East Germany has raised questions on how long East Berlin's leaders can resist the democratic reforms sweeping through neighboring East Bloc countries."
" Reforms in Poland, Hungary and even the Soviet Union have magnified East Germany's Stalinist controls."
' Fledgling protest groups, and the influential Protestant church, have begun pressing for reforms in East Germany which, if allowed to include free elections, could eventually lead to a reunited Germany, according to some Western experts.'
" Dorothee Wilms, Bonn's cabinet minister for inter-German affairs, said in an interview in the newspaper Welt am Sonntag that recent polls show that between 85% and 90% of all West Germans favor a reunifed Germany."
' "The desire for reunification, a feeling of togetherness, a sense of nationhood  all this has strongly increased in recent years," Ms. Wilms told the newspaper.'
' "The recent escape movement from the DDR makes especially clear that people of both German states want to live free amongst themselves," she said, but cautioned that reunification cannot occur overnight.'
' The first step, she added, "is the reform process in the DDR".'
" Most West German governments since 1949 have paid only lip service to the reunification goal set down in the preamble of West Germany's constitution."
' Political realities have prevented the topic from becoming a serious issue.'
' Analysts say that four decades of different systems would make reunification difficult.'
' Further, many West German workers worry that a mass influx of East Germans could threaten their jobs.'
" Thousands of East Germans have emigrated to West Germany over the Austro-Hungarian border since Budapest ignored East Berlin's protests and opened its border."
' Close to 80,000 East German refugees have arrived in West Germany so far this year, either legally or by escaping, and a total of more than 100,000 are expected by December.'
' The Soviets have joined East Berlin in criticizing Bonn for welcoming the East German refugees, and chided Hungary for violating an emigration treaty with East Germany by allowing them to leave.'
' Moscow, which has tolerated reforms elsewhere in the East Bloc, is said to be concerned by conditions in East Germany, perhaps the most important of its Warsaw Pact satellites.'
' Unconfirmed West German intelligence reports appearing in the West German media said Moscow fears a growing dissident movement and mass demonstrations in East Germany by next year.'
" Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev accepted an invitation to attend East Germany's 40th anniversary celebration, providing an opportunity for serious discussions with Erich Honecker, East Berlin's ailing party leader."
' East Germany\'s Communist leadership, commented the newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, "has no illusions as to why Gorbachev is honoring their 40th anniversary.'
' He certainly will not say \'well done, keep it up\'" .'
