' AP900103-0077'
' AP-NR-01-03-90 1240EDT'
' r i AM-Honecker 01-03 0311'
' AM-Honecker,0322'
' Report Honecker May be Moved to Monastery For His Safety'
' With AM-East Germany, Bjt'
' HAMBURG, West Germany (AP)'
' Former East German leader Erich Honecker may be moved to a monastery to protect him from a possible lynching by enraged citizens, a newspaper said Wednesday.'
" In a front-page story, the mass-circulation Bild newspaper said ``Lynch Danger _ Church Wants to Grant Honecker Asylum''."
' Since Honecker was ousted Oct. 18, the former Communist Party leader and other party officials have come under investigation for charges of corruption and living in luxury at the cost of the state.'
' In December, seven former Politburo members were arrested, and Honecker was placed under house arrest in the government housing area of Wandlitz outside East Berlin.'
' The Wandlitz homes, including the one in which Honecker still lives, are being converted to a medical rehabilitation center for children.'
' Honecker is expected to be forced out of the compound in February.'
" Bild said it had information that ``Lutheran and Catholic church sources have offered Honecker _ who is threated by public rage _ protection and refuge''."
" ``This is the only possibility to protect Erich Honecker from the rage of the East German people,'' Bild quoted the source as saying."
' It was the churches that became the venues for gathering of pro-democracy groups that eventually brought the overthrow of his 18-year leadership.'
" In recent weeks, East German groups have called for punishing Honecker and for moving him to smaller quarters ``with an outside toilet,'' Bild said."
" The current leadership fears that in such a situation, Honecker ``might be attacked and become a victim of lynch justice,'' Bild said."
' Honecker, 77, underwent gall-bladder surgery in August, and East German media reported he remains seriously ill.'
" ``Sources say the ailing ex-leader may be placed in a church-operated home for the elderly, or even in a monastery,'' Bild reported ."
' AP900118-0029'
' AP-NR-01-18-90 0329EST'
' r i PM-EastGermany-Honecker 01-18 0544'
' PM-East Germany-Honecker,0562'
" Honecker's Final Weeks In Power Described"
' With PM-East Germany'
' By KEVIN COSTELLOE'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WEST BERLIN (AP)'
" As protests gathered strength last fall, East Germany's longtime orthodox leader Erich Honecker ``lost touch with reality,'' according to the man who succeeded him as Communist leader only to be ousted later."
' Egon Krenz, the successor, and former Politburo member Guenter Schabowski on Wednesday gave their versions of the bunker mentality that engulfed the hard-liners toward the end.'
" ``There was the notion in the former party leadership that everything outside of planned events and demonstrations staged by the Communist youth group was an action organized by enemy forces,'' Krenz told an investigating commission in East Berlin."
' The testimony was broadcast on East German television.'
' Schabowski said Honecker had personally ordered police attacks against demonstrators in early October, working closely with his then-secret police chief, Erich Mielke.'
" ``Honecker took things into his own hands,'' Schabowski said."
" ``All decisions and orders that led to the police actions against demonstrators and to their arrrest went exclusively through Honecker and Mielke''."
' Like Krenz, Schabowski denied any personal responsibility for the orders to attack the demonstrators in the capital.'
' The attempts at suppression were engineered by Honecker and Mielke, bypassing the other 19 members of the ruling Politburo, Krenz insisted.'
" ``Then-general secretary Erich Honecker and the internal security chief Erich Mielke immediately after each session of the Politburo consulted with each other on the security situation of the German Democratic Republic,'' Krenz said."
' Honecker and Mielke are now targeted for an indictment for high treason.'
' The East Berlin city government commission is probing possible criminal charges stemming from police brutality during the October attacks in the capital.'
" Club-swinging riot police brutally beat demonstrators on Oct. 7 and 8, when Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev was in town to commemorate the country's 40th anniversary."
" The uprising was a turning point that speeded Honecker's downfall 10 days later."
" Krenz, who had responsibility for many internal security functions before Honecker's ouster, criticized the use of force during his testimony Wednesday."
" ``The excessive action of law enforcement authorities was neither politically nor morally justifiable,'' he told the panel, speaking confidently and wearing a gray suit."
' Krenz, who was thrown out six weeks after succeeding Honecker on Oct. 18, insisted he knew nothing about any orders to shoot demonstrators.'
' Numerous news media accounts have said Honecker either planned or issued such orders.'
" Krenz said he accepted ``joint responsibility for misjudging dissident citizens and dissident groups for years''."
" ``From today's viewpoint it is incomprehensible that there was no general Politburo discussion about the negative developments then taking place in society,'' said Krenz, an influential Politburo member even before Honecker's fall."
" Krenz added that he and other then-members of the Politburo failed to realize that the Roman Catholic and Lutheran churches were ``not working against but rather for the German Democratic Republic''."
" ``Honecker had lost touch with reality and had unrealistic perspectives,'' Krenz said of his one-time patron, who for years treated him like a son."
' Honecker has been in ill health following gallbladder surgery last summer.'
' He was recently operated on for a malignant kidney tumor.'
" Krenz's current occupation has not been publicized, following his fall as party chief on Dec. 3 ."
' AP900129-0036'
' AP-NR-01-29-90 0413EST'
' u i BC-HoneckerArrested 1stLd-Writethru a0462 01-29 0275'
' BC-Honecker Arrested, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0462,0277'
' Honecker Arrested, Taken to Prison'
' Eds: UPDATES with physician saying Honecker still not well enough to be jailed, unclear if prison has hospital unit.'
' No pickup .'
' EAST BERLIN (AP)'
' Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker, who is expected to be indicted for high treason, was arrested Monday morning upon release from a hospital and taken to prison, the official news agency ADN said.'
" The news agency said the 77-year-old Honecker was arrested after being released from East Berlin's Charite hospital, where he had undergone surgery for a malignant kidney tumor."
" Honecker was immediately taken to East Berlin's Rummelsburg prison, the brief dispatch said."
' Honecker joins other members of his ousted Politburo already in prison awaiting trial.'
' Earlier this month, East German prosecutors said Honecker and former state security chief Erich Mielke would be charged with treason and corruption charges for misuse of their positions and state funds.'
' Honecker, the aging hard-line Stalinist leader who ruled East Germany for 18 years until his ouster on Oct. 18, had previously been declared too ill to withstand imprisonment.'
' ADN said that the director of Charite urology clinic, Dr. Peter Althaus, repeated on Monday that in his opinion Honecker was still not well enough to be jailed.'
" On Sunday, West Germany's mass-circulation Bild newspaper said Honecker would be arrested, but that he would be held at a prison hospital because of his condition."
' ADN made not mention if Rummelsburg prison was equipped with a medical facility.'
" Earlier this month, East Germany's Luthern Church had offered to put Honecker up in a home for the aged upon his release from the hospital ."
' AP900129-0071'
' AP-NR-01-29-90 1223EST'
' u i PM-Honecker 2ndLd-Writethru 01-29 0445'
' PM-Honecker, 2nd Ld - Writethru,a0509,0454'
' Ousted East German Leader Arrested And Jailed'
" Eds: LEADS with 9 grafs to UPDATE with Honecker to be tried in March, four associates also to be tried; picks up 11th pvs, `East Germany...'"
' With PM-East Germany, Bjt'
' EAST BERLIN (AP)'
' Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker was arrested and taken to prison today, and a prosecutor said he will tried for high treason in March.'
" Honecker, 77, was detained after his release from East Berlin's Charite hospital, where he had undergone surgery for a malignant kidney tumor, the official ADN news agency said."
' Chief Prosecutor Hans-Juergen Joseph told Parliament that Honecker and former Politburo members Erich Mielke, Guenter Mittag and Joachim Herrmann would be tried by the Supreme Court on treason charges in March.'
' All four have been expelled from the party.'
" Mielke was Honecker's security chief, Mittag oversaw the economy and Herrmann headed the party's propaganda department."
" Eleven members of Honecker's ousted Politburo already are in prison awaiting trial."
" Honecker's lawyer, Wolfgang Vogel, asked the chief prosecutor to free the former leader from Rummelburg prison based on a doctor's statement that he is too ill to stay in jail, ADN said."
" Vogel is East Germany's most prominent lawyer."
" One of Honecker's doctors, Horst Vogler, said the former leader was ``very depressed'' and his mental state ``impaired'' following two major surgical operations since August."
' West German television showed an impassive Honecker being led out of the hospital by his wife, Margot, in pre-dawn darkness.'
' She kissed him goodbye before he was taken away in a large limousine.'
" Honecker's daughter, son-in-law and youngest grandchild also came to see him off at the hospital, ADN quoted Vogler as saying."
' The charge of high treason carries a maximum life imprisonment.'
" The conviction used to carry the death penalty, but that was abolished in reforms that followed Honecker's ouster Oct. 18."
' East Germany has been caught up in a virtual frenzy to root out corruption and abuse of office.'
' Honecker, the aging hard-line Stalinist leader who ruled East Germany for 18 years, had previously been declared too ill to withstand imprisonment.'
' ADN said the director of Charite urology clinic, Dr. Peter Althaus, repeated today that in his opinion Honecker is still not well enough to be jailed.'
" On Sunday, West Germany's mass-circulation Bild newspaper said Honecker would be arrested but that he would be held at a prison hospital because of his condition."
' ADN did not say whether Rummelsburg prison is equipped with a medical facility.'
" Earlier this month, East Germany's Luthern Church had offered to put Honecker up in a home for the aged upon his release from the hospital ."
' AP900730-0116'
' AP-NR-07-30-90 2101EDT'
' r i AM-Honecker 07-30 0279'
' AM-Honecker,0287'
' Panel: Honecker Unfit to be Held but Fit to be Tried'
' EAST BERLIN (AP)'
" East Germany's deposed Communist leader Erich Honecker is too sick to be held in jail but is fit enough to be tried, the official news agency ADN reported Monday."
' ADN, quoting a Health Ministry statement, said Honecker was still recovering from surgery for kidney cancer in January and was not well enough to be incarcerated.'
' But a medical exam by a team of doctors found him in condition to be questioned and to stand trial, ADN said.'
' Honecker, 77, ruled East Germany for 19 years until he was ousted in October as a wave of pro-democracy demonstrations swept the country, leading to the peaceful overthrow of the Communist government and the opening of the Berlin Wall.'
" The medical panel concluded that seven other former Communist officials, who had been among Honecker's closest aides, were all fit to prosecute and to be placed in custody, ADN said."
' It said former secret police chief Erich Mielke, former economics czar Guenter Mittag and former labor chief Harry Tisch were under arrest, while the other four remained free.'
' All three had been members of the ruling Politburo under Honecker.'
' Mielke was arrested on Thursday.'
' Honecker and the seven are charged with corruption and abuse of office.'
" They had been arrested soon after Honecker's fall but were later released because of advanced age and poor health."
' Honecker has been staying at a Soviet military hospital outside East Berlin.'
' ADN quoted Federal Prosecutor Guenter Seidel as saying he intended to continue his investigation against the former East German leaders, although their poor health often disrupted the proceedings .'
' AP900810-0120'
' AP-NR-08-10-90 2233EDT'
' r i AM-Honecker 08-10 0217'
' AM-Honecker,0224'
' Authorities Interrogate Honecker in Murder Probe'
' EAST BERLIN (AP)'
' East Germany authorities on Friday interrogated former Communist leader Erich Honecker about his role in the killings of people who tried to flee the country.'
" Honecker and Erich Mielke, head of East Germany's once-feared secret police agency, were interrogated by federal prosecutors, said Peter Przybylski, a Justice Ministry spokesman."
" More than 200 people were shot to death or killed by land mines as they tried to escape from East Germany's Communist rule."
' The government announced in June that Honecker, Mielke and several border guards would be investigated on possible murder charges in connection with those deaths.'
' Honecker, 77 and in failing health, and several other members of his ousted regime already have been charged with corruption and abuse of power.'
' The murder charge could put Honecker behind bars for life, but his poor health makes prosecution questionable.'
' He is staying in a Soviet hospital outside Berlin.'
' Last month, a medical panel ruled that Honecker was too ill to be jailed pending investigation but fit enough to be prosecuted.'
' Mielke was ordered jailed.'
" East Germany's democratic government has changed its mind several times on whether to pursue charges against the aging members of the former hard-line regime that was toppled in last autumn's pro-democracy protests ."
' AP900825-0099'
' AP-NR-08-25-90 1720EST'
' r i AM-EastGermany-Honecker 08-25 0263'
' AM-East Germany-Honecker,0270'
' Report: Honecker Unlikely To Go to Trial in East Germany'
' WEST BERLIN (AP)'
' Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker will not stand trial in East Germany as long as the formerly Communist country exists, a West German newspaper reported.'
' The Hamburg-based Bild am Sonntag said Saturday that it would report in its Sunday editions that Honecker could be prosecuted in a united Germany, however, for violation of property laws.'
' Bild quoted Guenter Seidel, an East German prosecutor, as saying that Honecker had used $42 million for stocking a private housing estate for leaders of the former Communist government.'
' However, Seidel said that the investigation was not far enough along to determine whether charges could be filed against Honecker before East Germany merges with West Germany on Oct. 3.'
' Negotiators are still working out the merger of the two German legal systems.'
" Honecker, 78, was ousted as East Germany's leader on Oct. 18, paving the way for the country's first freely elected government in March."
' Honecker is in poor health and remains confined to a Soviet military hospital in Beelitz outside East Berlin.'
" He is under investigation on allegations of abuse of power, corruption, harboring terrorists and issuing shoot-to-kill orders to prevent East Germans from escaping to West Germany when he served as the country's leader."
" Bild said that Erich Mielke, the ex-head of East Germany's former secret police, was also unlikely to go to court in East Germany."
" ``I am at the end. I am a dead man,'' Bild quoted Mielke, 82, as saying at his last interrogation ."
' AP900919-0122'
' AP-NY-09-19-90 1706EDT'
' r i AM-Honecker 09-19 0304'
' AM-Honecker,0349'
' Report: Ousted Stasi Chief Threatened Honecker in Jail'
' HAMBURG, West Germany (AP)'
" East Germany's ousted secret police chief threatened to break former Communist leader Erich Honecker's neck when the two faced each other in jail, a West German newspaper reported Wednesday."
" ``You traitor''! 82-year-old former security chief Erich Mielke shouted at Honecker, according to Bild newspaper."
" Mielke also screamed at Honecker ``I'll break your neck''! the newspaper quoted witnesses as describing the scene when the two met in an East German jail."
' Honecker, 78, was jailed for one day in January.'
' Mielke for years headed the dreaded secret police, known as Stasi, which built up files on 6 million East Germans and kept a tight rein on the population.'
" He was one of Honecker's closest aides."
' After the popular revolt last fall that ousted the Communist regime and opened the way to German unification, Mielke and other former Communist leaders were jailed.'
' Mielke remains in custody.'
' Honecker was released from jail for health reasons.'
' West German authorities on Tuesday opened a criminal investigation of Mielke.'
" He is suspected of giving sanctuary to members of West Germany's leftist terrorist group, the Red Army Faction, and of setting up contacts between the group and Palestinian guerrillas."
' Honecker is also the target of several criminal investigations, one in West Germany for obstruction of justice.'
' Bild said the imprisoned Mielke also accused other former Communist officials of betrayal and threatened to retaliate against them.'
" One prison warden told Bild that many of the guards had worked for Mielke's Stasi and that they might interpret his threat against Honecker as an order to kill the former Communist chief."
" Bild said Mielke and other members of Honecker's ruling circle will be moved to a West Berlin prison after German unification on Oct. 3."
' Honecker also will be moved to the same jail if his health improves enough for him to be imprisoned.'
' He is suffering from kidney cancer and is being kept at a Soviet military hospital oustide East Berlin .'
' AP901208-0106'
' AP-NY-12-08-90 1735EST'
' r i AM-Germany-Honecker 12-08 0225'
' AM-Germany-Honecker,0230'
' Report: High-Ranking German Demands Soviets Hand Over Honecker'
' BONN, Germany (AP)'
" A ranking member of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's party demanded the Soviet Union hand over Erich Honecker, who is wanted by German authorities on manslaughter charges, a newspaper reported on Saturday."
" Federal lawmaker Johannes Gerster said refusal to turn over the deposed East German leader for trial could ``burden'' Bonn and Moscow's ``outstanding relations,'' the Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung newspaper reported."
' A Berlin court has issued an arrest warrant for Honecker, 78, on the manslaughter charges.'
' He is accused of issuing shoot-to-kill orders to East German guards at the now-fallen Berlin Wall.'
' Honecker has denied all charges against him, including that he was personally responsible for the estimated 200 people who died trying to escape his repressive government.'
' He has taken refuge at a Soviet military hospital in Beelitz, outside Berlin.'
' Soviet officials have said Honecker is staying at the hospital for humanitarian reasons, and German police need permission from the Soviets to gain entry.'
" ``I demand that the Soviet government immediately release Erich Honecker and extradite him to German justice officials,'' the Osnabrueck newspaper quoted Gerster, a member of Kohl's Christian Democrats, as saying."
" Honecker's fate is one of the first issues facing Bonn and Moscow since they signed several treaties designed to draw the two nations closer together ."
' FBIS4-42178'
' "drweu104__a94019"'
' FBIS-WEU-94-104-A'
' Daily Report'
' 29 May 1994'
' ANNEX'
' Germany'
' Erich Honecker Dies in Chile 29 May'
' Erich Honecker Dies in Chile 29 May'
' AU2905165694 Hamburg DPA in German 1602 GMT 29 May 94  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY'
' AU2905165694'
' Hamburg DPA'
' German'
' BFN [Text] Berlin  Erich Honecker, the former GDR head of state, died at his house in Santiago, Chile on Sunday morning [29 May], according to his lawyer.'
' Lawyer Nicolas Becker, who had represented 81-year-old Honecker before the Berlin court in 1992 and early 1993, told DPA on Sunday afternoon that Honecker had rejected an operation.'
' However, everything that was sensible had been done with regard to his cancer.'
" Becker could not comment on the exact cause of Honecker's death."
' His colleague, Wolfgang Ziegler, had said earlier that the former most powerful man in the GDR had obviously died from his liver cancer.'
' Becker said he did not know whether Honecker has left a will or where the funeral would be held.'
' This will be decided by the family.'
" He also said he cannot say whether Margot Honecker, who had informed Becker of her husband's death, will be allowed to stay in Chile."
' After being released from prison in 1993, Honecker had traveled to Santiago to join his daughter, who is married to a Chilean.'
' Since then, he and his wife had been living in a house in a wealthy Santiago area .'
' SJMN91-06353190'
' 06353190'
' Photo; PHOTO: Associated Press; A SONG FOR HONECKER  Supporters of Erich Honecker sing communist songs Monday night in front of the Chilean Embassy in Moscow, where he has sought refuge .'
' PAST; EAST; GERMANY; MILITARY; OFFICIAL; USSR; PRESIDENT; SUPPORT; DELAY'
' Mikhail Gorbachev urged all sides Tuesday to take their time in deciding the fate of Erich Honecker, as the fugitive former East German leader spent a seventh day of refuge inside the Chilean Embassy.'
' A day after the Russian government backed down from its threat to expel him, diplomats sought to settle the fate of the 79-year-old Honecker .'
' Front'
' HONECKER FATE STILL UNDECIDED GORBACHEV URGES A GO-SLOW APPROACH'
' Germany wants to try him for ordering the shooting of people who attempted to flee to the West during his years in power.'
' But speculation lingers that German politicians have little real interest in trying a man who may possess embarrassing secrets.'
' "Let\'s forget about the issue of Erich Honecker for several days.'
' Let\'s hope this special issue will be resolved," Gorbachev\'s spokesman, Andrei Grachev, quoted the Soviet president as telling German media.'
' But Tass quoted Gorbachev as saying he did not exclude the possibility that Honecker would leave Russia for North Korea in the next few days.'
" Gorbachev had served as Honecker's protector until the Soviet leader's political fortunes declined."
' Last week Russia abruptly ordered Honecker to leave the country or face expulsion.'
' North Korean and Russian diplomats confirmed that talks were held Tuesday about a North Korean offer for Honecker to travel to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, for medical treatment.'
" Li Cher Gvan, a consul at the North Korean Embassy, said a commercial North Korean airliner remained at Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport ready to fly Honecker to Pyongyang."
' But he said his country was still awaiting a positive reply from the Russian government on the offer to accept Honecker.'
' The Russian Foreign Ministry said it had not yet formulated a response.'
' Outside the Chilean Embassy, several dozen demonstrators continued their vigil, demanding humane treatment for Honecker .'
' Associated Press'
' USA'
' Moscow'
' Morning Final'
' SJ'
' San Jose Mercury News'
' 911218'
' Wednesday'
' December'
' 6A'
' 1991'
' WEST'
' PHOTO'
' CA'
' 318'
' Wednesday, December 18, 1991 00353190,SJ1'
' Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News'
' 1'
' ENG'
