' AP900117-0193'
' AP-NR-01-17-90 2158EST'
' u a AM-PreschoolMolest 01-17 0508'
' AM-Preschool Molest,0523'
' Jurors Deadlocked on 13 Charges'
' By LINDA DEUTSCH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LOS ANGELES (AP)'
" Jurors who have reached verdicts on 52 counts in the McMartin preschool molestation case said Wednesday they are deadlocked on the remaining 13 charges in the nation's longest, costliest criminal trial."
" Superior Court Judge William Pounders received a note from the jurors as they ended their day's deliberation and called a hearing for Thursday to discuss the deadlock and possibly opening the 52 sealed verdicts."
' In an interview Wednesday evening, Pounders said he would deal with the deadlocked counts first, either declaring a mistrial on those counts and reading the sealed verdicts, or sending the jury back to resume deliberations on the undecided counts.'
' He said the verdicts could also be read before sending the jury back.'
" However, the judge noted that ``The attorneys are hopeful all the counts will be resolved before we take any verdicts''."
' Pounders said he would discuss the matter with attorneys before quizzing jurors on whether they want to deliberate further.'
' The jurors are deciding whether Raymond Buckey, 31, and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, 63, are guilty or innocent of charges they molested children at their family-owned McMartin Pre-School in Manhattan Beach.'
' The jury that spent 2 years hearing evidence in the case have agreed on 52 verdicts.'
' They have all been sealed.'
' None of the verdicts is official until it is announced in court and affirmed by the jury.'
' Jurors are in their ninth week of deliberations.'
' Buckey and his mother are charged with 64 counts of child molestation and the one shared count of conspiracy.'
' One of the charges which apparently has divided the jurors is the conspiracy charge which names both defendants.'
' Jurors asked twice for an explanation of how they could convict one defendant and acquit the other on that joint charge, but seemed perplexed after they received an explanation earlier Wednesday.'
" After conferring with lawyers, Pounders told jurors they could convict just one of the defendants on the charge ``if you feel that the defendant conspired with one or more other persons''."
' However, he noted the conspiracy count includes eight alleged overt acts, some of them naming only one defendant.'
' A split verdict, he said, would require elimination of overt acts alleged against a defendant acquitted of the charge.'
' It was at that point, he said, that some jurors began shaking their heads in confusion.'
' Buckey and his mother were the only defendants required to stand trial after an 18-month preliminary hearing.'
' Five women teachers who worked at the McMartin Pre-School had charges against them dismissed.'
" Among those were Buckey's sister, Peggy Ann, and his grandmother, Virginia McMartin, who founded the prestigious but now defunct nursery school."
' On Tuesday, deliberations were halted at midday because a juror became ill.'
" On Wednesday, the talks did not begin until 1 p.m. because another juror's child was ill."
' No alternates remain in the case and the judge has worried that losing one of the 12 remaining jurors would force a mistrial .'
' AP900118-0183'
' AP-NR-01-18-90 2219EST'
' r a AM-PreschoolMolest-Reax 01-18 0866'
' AM-Preschool Molest-Reax,0899'
' Parents, Jurors and Family Members React To Verdicts'
' With AM-Preschool Molest, Bjt'
' By RICHARD DE ATLEY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LOS ANGELES (AP)'
" Thursday's acquittals in the McMartin Pre-School molestation case outraged parents who said prosecutors botched it, while those on the defense side proclaimed a triumph of justice over hysteria and hype."
' Mother-and-son defendants Peggy McMartin Buckey, 63, and Raymond Buckey, 31, wept as the verdicts were announced.'
" Jurors found the pair innocent of 52 charges and couldn't reach a verdict on 13 other counts."
' Prosecutors must decide whether to try those charges in a new trial.'
" ``I just said, `I told you Ray,''' Mrs. Buckey said."
' Asked if her son was surprised, she said.'
" ``He had fear, definitely''."
' Buckey avoided reporters and slipped out the courthouse with his lawyer.'
' ``If it can happen to seven innocent people it can happen to you, too.'
" If it had not been in my faith in God I wouldn't be here today,'' she said."
' But several parents of former students at the school said the Buckeys won because the system lost.'
" ``It was never done properly,'' said parent Alan Lagunoff, who moved to Central California from suburban Manhattan Beach."
' ``I have to sit back and figure out what to do with my son.'
" I fear that because of this verdict, no child will be seen as a credible witness from now on''."
" His son, now 10, attended the school for 1 years but wasn't a witness at the trial."
" ``I don't think it's worth it to bring this thing back into the courts."
" It will just be another six-year travesty,'' Lagunoff said."
" ``The system is not going to protect children,'' said Jackie McGauley, a parent who believes her child had been molested but didn't testify in the case."
" ``I don't know what the message is that the jury wanted to get out."
" I'm anxious to hear that''."
' Charles Buckey, father of Raymond and husband of Mrs. Buckey, suggested Deputy District Attorney Lael Rubin, who prosecuted the case for its entire six years, was motivated by personal ambition.'
" ``My concern primarily was Lael Rubin, who is `anything goes' in order to secure a conviction."
" ... If you don't win, you don't get promoted,'' he said."
' Juror Brenda Williams said the evidence failed to convince the jury beyond a reasonable doubt in 52 of the charges.'
" ``Even if you accept that the children were molested, it didn't necessarily mean they were molested at the McMartin Pre-School,'' Ms. Williams told reporters."
' Raymond Buckey spent nearly five years in jail without bail during the case, which defense attorneys said was the result of community hysteria sparked by bizarre allegations by the alcoholic mother of one child at the preschool.'
" Some observers accused then-District Attorney Robert Philibosian of using the spectacular charges to boost his failing re-election campaign against Ira Reiner, who beat him and now runs the district attorney's office."
' Philibosian, however, insisted he would not have handled the matter differently.'
' ``Ira Reiner has had that case for five years, and I am not going to take any public criticism directed at me.'
" Let him respond to the criticism,'' said Philibosian, now in private law practice."
" Also criticized was the decision by investigators to use a private child therapy group, Children's Institute International, to conduct the original interviews with the children."
" Defense attorneys maintained that questions by the institute's researchers were leading and prejudicial."
' Jurors agreed.'
" ``We never got the children's stories in their own words,'' said juror John Breese."
" Children's Institute officials didn't immediately return telephone calls seeking comment."
" Originally, there were seven defendants, including Raymond Buckey's sister, Peggy Ann Buckey, and Virginia McMartin, the founder of the school, mother of Mrs. Buckey and grandmother of Raymond Buckey."
' Hundreds of allegations of child molestation were filed in the case, which gained worldwide attention with its tales of underground tunnels at the school and Satanic rituals.'
' The focus of the case shifted dramatically over the years as Reiner reduced the number of charges and dropped five defendants after reviewing the case.'
' The underground tunnels were never found.'
' No proof was ever produced of Satanic rituals.'
' Reiner said the system must be changed to prevent such long, expensive prosecution.'
' ``It took far too long and cost far too much money to have what has been called perfect justice.'
" We need reform,'' Reiner said, adding that in trying to describe the case, ``Insane is the word that comes to mind''."
' The case was the longest and the costliest in American judicial history, at 2 years and $15 million.'
' Superior Court Judge William Pounders said he did what he could to limit its length, cutting 50 witnesses and narrowing the scope of the case.'
' For parents and others, there was more to ponder than legal questions.'
' ``Life is not fair.'
' I tell my children all the time ...'
" there is no such thing as fair,'' said Robert Currie, whose son attended McMartin but didn't testify at the trial."
" ``It's really a travesty for a case to take this long,'' said Ms. Rubin, the prosecutor."
" ``...Not only for the families, the children in this case, but also for the defendants as well.''"
' AP900118-0190'
' AP-NR-01-18-90 2233EST'
' r a AM-PreschoolMolest-Jury 01-18 0788'
' AM-Preschool Molest-Jury,0813'
' Jury Denounces Child Therapy Center, Police Letter'
' With Preschool Molest, Bjt'
' By LINDA DEUTSCH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LOS ANGELES (AP)'
' Jurors in the McMartin Pre-School molestation case denounced the techniques of a child therapy center and a police department letter that inflamed parents and ignited the case.'
' Seven jurors who spoke with reporters in a joint news conference after acquitting Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, on 52 molestation charges Thursday said they felt some children who testified may have been molested _ but not at the family-run McMartin Pre-School.'
" And they said some children may have merely repeated stories told them by their parents and interviewers at Children's Institute International."
' The private child therapy center, which specializes in abused children, videotaped interviews with children from the McMartin school after reports of molestations surfaced.'
' Jurors saw the tapes in which interviewers used anatomically explicit puppets and leading questions to elicit descriptions of molestation from children.'
' Asked what led to acquittals, juror Brenda Williams focused on the taped interviews from the center jurors call CII.'
" ``The CII interviews _ I could not accept them,'' Mrs. Williams said."
' ``I believe the children believe what they were saying was true.'
' But at CII, I could not tell if the children were saying what was told to them (by interviewers) or if they were repeating what their parents had told them.'
" ``If the CII tapes had not been entered into evidence and I had not seen them, I could have believed the children a little more,''' Mrs. Williams said."
' ``The CII tapes did not help me.'
" They gave me a lot of reasonable doubt,'' agreed juror Julie Peters, 47, a supermarket meat wrapper."
' ``The children were never allowed to say in their own words what happened to them.'
' All the questions were leading.'
" They never had a chance to tell their stories,'' said juror John Breese, 51, a medical technician and grandfather of five."
" ``I tried to believe the children,'' said juror Daryl Hutchins 28, an oil company lease operator."
" ``But if the child was so contaminated (by the interviews) I couldn't''."
' Equal criticism was aimed at a letter sent in 1983 by the Manhattan Beach Police Department to parents of McMartin school children.'
" The letter alerted parents to a claim of molestation at the school and to Buckey's arrest."
" ``The police letter should never have been sent,'' said juror Sally Cordova, 27, a supermarket checker."
' ``It put the information out there too early.'
" The whole city knew''."
' At that point, jurors said, they felt parents had been programmed to believe their children had been molested.'
" ``One child said his parents told him that he was molested even before he went to CII,'' Mrs. Williams recalled."
" The panelists said they threw out entirely the most fantastic allegations, including some children's accounts of being molested in a car wash."
" ``We just dismissed those,'' said Mrs. Williams."
" They said a series of medical slides shown to them lacked impact because they weren't sure what they were seeing in the photos of children's genitals."
' Although they acquitted defendants of most charges, the jurors deadlocked on 13 counts.'
' Some said they were unsure whether Buckey was a molester but were sure the prosecution had failed to prove its molestation allegations against him beyond a reasonable doubt.'
" Jurors said they didn't rule out that some children in the case were molested _ but not by these defendants."
" ``Even if you accept that the children were molested,'' said juror Mark Bassett, ``the evidence didn't establish that they were molested at the McMartin Pre-School''."
" The panelists said they were aware of the trial's enormous toll on defendants as well as children and parents."
" ``I think everybody is a victim,'' said Ms. Peters."
" ``I don't think anybody came out of this case a winner."
" I think it's sad because everybody lost something."
' The defendants _ their lives have been ruined.'
' They lost their business, their reputation.'
" It's sad''."
' Mrs. Williams added, ``The children have to live with this.'
' The parents have to live with this.'
" There's nothing I can say that will make it better''."
" As for themselves, the jurors said their lives were ``put on hold'' for nearly three years."
' Bassett lost his job as a research computer scientist when his company folded.'
' Mrs. Williams got married.'
' Breese said his wife died during the trial and he has since remarried.'
" ``It's been very hard,'' said Mrs. Williams, a telephone company service representative."
" ``There were days when I thought I couldn't stand it anymore."
" ``I don't really know my job anymore,'' she said."
" ``It's going to be hard getting back into the real world''."
' The jury foreman and four other jurors declined interviews .'
' AP900118-0205'
' AP-NR-01-18-90 2346EST'
' u a BC-PreschoolMolest-Chronology 1stLd-Writethru a0638 01-18 0835'
' BC-Preschool Molest-Chronology, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0638,0856'
" Chronology of Events in Nation's Longest Criminal Case"
' Eds: SUBS grafs 12-15, bgn `Dec.'
" 19...,' to rearrange in chronological order."
" Picks up 16th graf pvs, `April 20'..."
' Note contents .'
' LOS ANGELES (AP)'
' The McMartin Pre-school molestation case was the longest criminal trial in U.S. history.'
' Here is a chronology of the case:'
' _Aug.'
' 12, 1983: Judy Johnson makes a phone call to Manhattan Beach Police Department and tells Detective Jane Hoag that she believes her 2-year-old son was molested by Raymond Buckey at the McMartin Pre-School.'
' _Sept. 7, 1983: Ms. Hoag arrests Buckey, but he is released later that day for lack of evidence.'
' Police continue the investigation and stir controversy by sending letters to 200 parents naming Buckey as a child molestation suspect and asking them to interrogate their children about oral sex, fondling of genitals and sodomy.'
" _Fall of 1983 to spring of 1984: Nearly 400 children are interviewed by Children's Institute International, and 41 are listed as victims in a complaint filed by the state."
' _Feb. 2, 1984: KABC-TV reporter Wayne Satz, in a newscast, describes dozens of alleged acts of oral copulation and sodomy with children.'
' _March 22, 1984: Public outcry prompts Los Angeles District Attorney Robert Philibosian to send the case to grand jurors, who indict Buckey; his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey; his sister, Peggy Ann Buckey; his grandmother Virginia McMartin, and three employees, Mary Ann Jackson, Babette Spitler and Betty Raidor, on 115 charges of child molestation.'
' _March 24, 1984: All seven defendants are arrested and jailed.'
' Buckey and his mother are held without bail.'
' Bail for he others ranges from $50,000 to $350,000.'
' Lael Rubin, Christine Johnston and Glenn Stevens are assigned to the prosecution team.'
' Stevens is later removed for expressing doubts about evidence, and Ms. Johnston asks for reassignment.'
' _April 20, 1984: The seven defendants plead innocent at an arraignment, during which they are charged with sexually abusing 18 children over 10 years and using death threats to silence them.'
' _June 6, 1984: A preliminary hearing starts with Municipal Judge Aviva K. Bobb presiding.'
' Thirteen of the 41 alleged victims chosen from CII interviews take the stand during the 18-month hearing.'
" _Jan. 22, 1985: The first child witness in the preliminary hearing testifies that he and other pupils played ``naked games'' and that he had been touched on his genitals by some of the defendants."
' _Jan. 9, 1986: Judge Bobb orders all seven defendants to stand trial in Superior Court on 135 counts of molestation and conspiracy, ending the longest preliminary hearing in California history.'
' The cost of the hearing was estimated at $4 million.'
' _Jan. 17, 1986: District Attorney Ira Reiner says there is insufficient evidence to warrant a trial for five of the seven defendants and asks dismissal of charges against Virginia McMartin, Peggy Ann Buckey, Mary Ann Jackson, Babette Spitler and Betty Raidor.'
' The remaining defendants, Buckey and his mother, still face 100 counts of molestation and conspiracy.'
' _Jan. 23, 1986: Mrs. Buckey is released on $295,000 bail, reduced from $495,000.'
' _Dec. 19, 1986: Judy Johnson, the mother who made the first allegations against Buckey, is found dead, naked and face down in her home, at age 44.'
' The coroner says she died of fatty metamorphosis of the liver, an ailment commonly found in alcoholics.'
' _April 20, 1987: The trial begins with jury selection.'
' By July 1, 12 jurors and six alternates are chosen from 500 prospective panelists.'
' _July 13, 1987: Opening statements begin after efforts to move the case elsewhere are quashed by Superior Court Judge William R. Pounders.'
" _July 29, 1987: The first parent to testify says his daughter's behavior indicates she may have been abused at the school, but he didn't recognize the warning signs at the time."
' _Dec. 10, 1987: Paul Bynum, 39, a former police officer who once served as a defense investigator in the case, is found dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.'
' _Oct. 17, 1988: The judge dismisses eight molestation counts against Buckey and his mother.'
' They now face a combined 65 counts of molestation and conspiracy involving 11 former McMartin pupils.'
' _Feb. 15, 1989: Buckey is released on $1.5 million bail after being jailed nearly five years.'
' _April 27, 1989: The trial, hitting the 2-year, 4-day mark, becomes the longest criminal hearing in U.S. history when it surpasses by one day the Hillside Strangler trial of Angelo Buono in 1982-83.'
' _May 16, 1989: Peggy McMartin Buckey takes the stand for the first time and strongly denies she ever sexually assaulted her students.'
' _July 26, 1989: Buckey takes the stand and denies he has ever molested children.'
' _Nov. 2, 1989: Jurors adjourn to select a foreman and begin deliberations.'
' The eight-men, four-women panel must sift through volumes of testimony from 124 witnesses.'
' _Jan. 18, 1990: The jury acquits Buckey and his mother of 52 counts.'
' The judge declares a mistrial on 13 other counts _ 12 against Buckey and one against both Buckey and his mother .'
' AP900119-0024'
' AP-NR-01-19-90 0337EST'
' r a PM-PreschoolMolest-Therapists 01-19 0429'
' PM-Preschool Molest-Therapists,0444'
' Social Worker Defends Child Interviews in McMartin Case'
' With PM-Preschool Molest, Bjt'
' By MICHAEL FLEEMAN'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LOS ANGELES (AP)'
" A therapist defended her interviews of alleged victims in the McMartin Pre-School molestation trial, despite criticism by several jurors who said leading questions undermined the prosecution's case."
' The jury on Thursday acquitted Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, of 52 child molestation counts and deadlocked on 13 other counts.'
' Therapist Kee McFarlane later defended her work with hundreds of McMartin students, and suggested that the goals of therapy are at odds with the legal standards required for a successful criminal prosecution.'
" ``What is in the interest of children is not always in the interest of the legal system,'' she said."
' Evidence introduced by prosecutors in what became the longest and most expensive criminal trial in U.S. history included videotaped interviews of the alleged victims.'
" Many of the interviews were conducted at an early stage of the sexual abuse investigation by MacFarlane, a social worker and director of the Child Sexual Abuse Center at Children's Institute International."
' MacFarlane said Thursday she still believes children from the school had been molested and that they had not fabricated their accounts of abuse.'
" ``This agency would never have gone all the way through what we have if we did not believe these children,'' she said."
' At least seven jurors who attended a news conference agreed the evidence showed children had been molested.'
" But the jurors were sharply critical of the interviewers' technique at the institute."
" ``The children were never allowed to say in their own words what happened to them,'' said juror John Breese."
" ``All the questions were leading''."
" ``If the CII tapes had not been entered into evidence and I had not seen them, I could have believed the children a little more,'' juror Brenda Williams said."
' But MacFarlane said that the interviewing techniques were sound, noting that small children must be interviewed differently than adults.'
" ``I didn't put words into their mouths,'' she said."
" ``I tried to enable them to get over their fears''."
' MacFarlane acknowledged that some procedures could have been done differently, including conducting more interviews over a longer period of time.'
" She called the outcome of the case a ``tragic consequence of an attempt to prevent trauma to these children''."
" But the institute's executive director, Mary M. Emmons, said some good may come out of the case."
" ``It has greatly increased the awareness about the issue of child sexual abuse and about the problems of prosecuting these cases,'' she said ."
' AP900119-0041'
' AP-NR-01-19-90 0509EST'
' r a PM-PreschoolMolest-Blame 01-19 0406'
' PM-Preschool Molest-Blame,0417'
' Blame Plentiful in Preschool Molestation Case'
' With PM-Preschool Molest, Bjt'
' By MICHAEL FLEEMAN'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LOS ANGELES (AP)'
' There was plenty of blame to go around at the end of the lengthy and traumatic McMartin Pre-School molestation trial, but no one was willing to accept it.'
" In the nation's longest and costliest trial, Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, were acquitted Thursday on 52 child molestation charges."
' The jury deadlocked on 13 other charges.'
' Afterward, the district attorney who filed the case criticized the current district attorney.'
' The current district attorney blamed his predecessor and defense attorneys.'
' And some of the parents of children who attended the school blamed everybody.'
" ``The system is not going to protect children,'' said Jackie McGauley, a parent who believes her child had been molested but didn't testify in the case."
" ``Life is not fair,'' said Robert Curry, whose son attended the McMartin school."
' ``I tell my children all the time ...'
" there is no such thing as fair''."
' The district attorney who originally pursued the case said he would not have done anything differently.'
' Robert Philibosian, now in private practice, angrily dismissed accusations that he played up the McMartin case in 1984 _ with the news media acting as eager accomplices _ to boost his public profile as he ran for district attorney.'
" ``I was a professional prosecutor for 16 years before this case was brought,'' he said."
" ``To have people who know very little about professional or prosecutorial ethics, to criticize me personally that I have some political motive is totally unjustified''."
' Philibosian instead pointed the finger at the man who defeated him, current District Attorney Ira Reiner.'
" Philibosian said Reiner hurt prosecutor's chances by dismissing charges against five of the original seven defendants and criticizing the case in a 1986 ``60 Minutes'' interview."
" But Reiner, calling his dismissal of charges for lack of evidence ``the decision we're proud of,'' said the trial took so long because of the state's ponderous criminal justice system, delay tactics by defense attorneys and a mess left behind by Philibosian."
" ``This is a case I inherited,'' Reiner said."
' In interviews, many jurors said they believed some of the children were molested, but the prosecution never established that the defendants were responsible.'
" ``Even if you accept that the children were molested, it didn't necessarily mean they were molested at the McMartin Pre-School,'' said juror Brenda Williams ."
' AP900119-0051'
' AP-NR-01-19-90 0645EST'
' r a PM-PreschoolMolest-Scene 01-19 0404'
' PM-Preschool Molest-Scene,0420'
" `I'd Like to Have No Memories of This'"
' With PM-Preschool Molest, Bjt'
' By JENNIFER BOWLES'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MANHATTAN BEACH, Calif. (AP)'
" ``Ray Will Die'' is scrawled in big black letters on the faded green paint of the McMartin Pre-School, testimony to the rage inflamed by the notorious child-molesting case."
' Former McMartin teachers Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, were acquitted Thursday of 52 charges of molesting students.'
' Jurors were deadlocked on 13 other counts.'
" Whatever happens on those charges, few in this upper-middle-class Los Angeles suburb would disagree with the judge in the trial, William Pounders, who once said, ``The case has poisoned everyone who had contact with it''."
" Sue Brown, a receptionist at a medical office across the street from the school, said she had two friends who were involved in the case and had been convinced of the Buckeys' guilt."
" ``I think they got off scot-free,'' Brown said."
" ``I'm really sick about it''."
' Alan Lagunoff, whose son, now 10, testified against the Buckeys, stood in front of the run-down, long-closed nursery school and talked about his disappointment.'
" ``The defense did everything to prolong the case and the prosecution did not do enough research to prosecute the case properly,'' he said."
' A cold wind blasted leaves across the schoolyard as Lagunoff leaned on the rusted chain-link fence surrounding the dilapidated L-shaped building.'
" ``I'd like to see the school become a center for abused children,'' he said."
" ``It should be put to some good use rather than tear it down''."
' But another longtime Manhattan Beach resident disagreed.'
" ``I'd like to see it torn down,'' said Brenda Platt."
" ``I'd like to have no memories of this''."
' Platt, who has two children aged 1 and 3, said she has serious doubts about placing them in a day-care center because of the McMartin trial.'
' ``I think (the McMartin case) is a disgrace to Manhattan Beach and society.'
" It's totally upsetting,'' Platt said."
' Linda Geisert, another resident of the beach city, was also upset.'
" ``I'm greatly disappointed in the legal system and quite frankly in the jurors,'' Geisert said."
' For all his disappointment, Lagunoff said he did not feel the prosecutors should retry the remaining 13 counts.'
" ``It would be just more of the same circus,'' he said."
" ``We put so much faith and hope in our courts,'' said Robert Canter, 74."
" ``And this is what we get _ frustration.''"
' LA011990-0091'
' 164172'
' January 19, 1990, Friday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 1; Column 5; Metro Desk'
' 3292 words'
' MCMARTIN VERDICT: NOT GUILTY;'
" JUSTICE: THE JURY'S FINDINGS CLOSE THE LONGEST AND COSTLIEST CRIMINAL TRIAL IN HISTORY."
' NO DECISION HAS BEEN MADE ON RETRYING RAY BUCKEY ON 13 UNDECIDED COUNTS .'
' By LOIS TIMNICK and CAROL McGRAW, TIMES STAFF WRITERS'
' Ray Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, were found not guilty Thursday of molesting children at the family-run McMartin Pre-School in Manhattan Beach, a verdict which brought to a close the longest and costliest criminal trial in history .'
' An eight-man, four-woman jury  10 of the members parents themselves  acquitted the Buckeys of 52 counts of molestation after deliberating for nine weeks over evidence that had been presented over the course of more than two years.'
' The jury reported it was deadlocked on 13 remaining counts, and a mistrial was declared on those allegations .'
' Ray Buckey, 31, left the courtroom without comment  free on his own recognizance until a decision is reached on whether the district attorney will retry him on the 13 undecided counts.'
' But his 63-year-old mother and co-defendant reacted with anger .'
' "I\'ve gone through hell and now we\'ve lost everything," she said outside the court.'
' "My concern was for my son and what they\'ve done to him . . . because my son would never harm a child" .'
' Most jurors said later that they believed the children who testified had been molested, but that the prosecution had failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the Buckeys were culpable .'
' "I am not convinced that he (Ray Buckey) is innocent," said juror Sally Cordova, 27, a supermarket checker.'
' "But it was not proven to me that he did it.'
' Whether I believe he did it and whether it was proven are very different" .'
' The end of the case came in a tense and crowded courtroom.'
' The Buckeys, who spent years in jail as the case progressed through the judicial system, had sat silently, staring straight ahead, as the jury filed into the room shortly before 10:30 a.m. and the gallery of reporters and spectators grew quiet in anticipation .'
' "All the verdicts are the same," said Los Angeles Superior Court Judge William Pounders, handing them to his court clerk .'
" Clerk Stan Ferrell listed the counts numerically and then, reading from the verdict form, delivered in a single, almost anti-climactic sentence the historic trial's close:"
' "We the jury in the above entitled actions find the defendants not guilty" .'
' The quiet of the courtroom was split by a few gasps and sobs.'
' At first, the defendants remained stoic, then their eyes began to rim with tears.'
" Ray Buckey's lower lip quivered."
' His mother dabbed at her eyes with a handkerchief.'
' They said nothing .'
' Afterward, Peggy McMartin Buckey insisted she was not bitter.'
' "I knew God would set my son and me free because we have done nothing," she said as she was driven away.'
' Her optimism was not matched by her son, however, who she said had "had fear, definitely," about what the jury would decide .'
' "I held his hand," Buckey\'s mother said after the verdicts were announced, "and I told him: \'I told you, Ray,\' and he felt like he wanted to cry but he didn\'t" .'
' The acquittals concluded the longest criminal trial in history, a case that stemmed from a 2 1/2-year-old\'s report to his mother six years ago that he had been sodomized at his school by a "Mr.'
' Ray". The case ultimately cost taxpayers more than $15 million, altered scores of lives and careers, and provided a national focal point for the issue of child abuse .'
' Judge Pounders said he was not surprised by the verdicts: "I found it difficult to determine how they would view the evidence in the first place.'
' I thought that based on the evidence that was presented, the jury could do almost anything and still find rational support for it .'
' "It is very difficult to test the credibility of children, and when you go beyond that, the natural tendency for adults is to look for corroboration.'
' It was very difficult to find corroboration in this case" .'
' Asked if the case was worth its cost in money, lives and stress, Pounders said he thinks society benefited from the case .'
' "People will be much more alert to the possibility of this type of offense taking place at preschool and at schools," Pounders said.'
' "People are no longer dropping their children off and walking away blindly.'
' They look back.'
' They check things out more" .'
' In the crowded courthouse hallways, parents of alleged victims lashed out at the prosecutors for bungling the case and insisted that their children had not been well served by the judicial system .'
' "The system doesn\'t allow us to protect kids," said the father of two alleged victims.'
' "I have no doubt these children were abused .'
' Said a tearful mother: "I guess maybe it\'s OK to (molest) kids! I can\'t believe this" .'
' The children themselves reacted calmly and stood by their accounts .'
' "We all know that we are telling the truth," said a 15-year-old boy who had testified.'
' "No matter what the jury says, whatever anybody says, this is the truth.'
' We were molested" .'
' Another of the children said that, when the clerk read "not guilty" on the verdict form, "my stomach just hollowed out.'
' I was beyond tears.'
' Those words will stick with me probably the rest of my life.'
' I\'ll never forget those two words" .'
" Jurors were critical of the prosecutors' methods."
" In particular, they cited the prosecution's reliance on videotapes of controversial pretrial interviews of the young witnesses at a Los Angeles child-abuse center."
" They also criticized the Manhattan Beach Police Department's decision, early in the investigation, to send out form letters to parents announcing an investigation had begun and soliciting information ."
' "The children," said juror John Breese, 51, a biomedical technician, "were never allowed to say in their own words what happened to them.'
' That was crucial" .'
' Said jury foreman Luis Chang, an electrical engineer: "The key evidence that swayed me was the interview tapes.'
' They were too biased, too leading.'
' That\'s the main crux of it" .'
' All said they had entered the jury deliberation room with open minds, not only because the judge had so instructed, but also because the disjointed testimony had left them confused .'
' "I went into the jury room as confused and uncertain as I was the day I first sat in the jury box the first day of this trial," said Brenda Williams, 38, a Pacific Bell service representative.'
' "I felt I had missed out on something, maybe I had dozed off during some important testimony and I was hoping some of my fellow jurors had something in their notes that I didn\'t have in mine that would make it all come together" .'
' Said juror Mark Bassett, 33, a computer specialist: "We just didn\'t really know what happened" .'
' Deputy Dist.'
' Atty Lael Rubin, who prosecuted the case, said a decision has not been made about whether to pursue the 13 counts involved in a mistrial.'
' These counts involve 12 molestation charges against Ray Buckey, and a conspiracy count that accused both him and his mother.'
' The conspiracy count against Peggy McMartin Buckey was dismissed outright Thursday .'
' "We ultimately must respect the jury\'s decision," Rubin said, "even though I personally disagree with it .'
' "The system worked well for them," she said in reference to the Buckeys.'
' "They were lucky.'
' I just hope to God that years from now we don\'t hear about Ray Buckey molesting children" .'
' Los Angeles County Dist.'
' Atty. Ira Reiner blamed the criminal justice system for the length of the trial, and said he backs two state court-reform initiatives .'
' "Too much time and too much money has gone into this case.'
' This is insane.'
' The very idea a case can go to trial for 2 1/2 years and there can be a rational result is preposterous.'
' The McMartin case is the very worst example that we have, period.'
' But it does not stand alone" .'
' Defense attorneys Dean Gits and Danny Davis were beaming after the verdict announcement.'
' "I feel great," Gits said, indicating he had found hope that the decision would go the defense way last week when the jury informed the judge it was reaching deadlock on a conspiracy count .'
' With the acquittal, Pounders freed more than $3 million worth of property that had been posted by Buckey supporters as bail last year so that he could be released after five years in jail.'
" Buckey's mother had been free on a smaller bail amount earlier after spending nearly two years in jail ."
' The McMartin case  which included allegations not only of rape, sodomy, oral copulation, and other sex crimes, but also of pornographic photography sessions, "naked games," field trips away from the school for illicit purposes, animal mutilation, threats and satanic-like ritual and sacrifice  began in the fall of 1983 .'
' The mother of a 2 1/2-year-old complained to Manhattan Beach police that her son had been sodomized by "Mr.'
' Ray," and subsequent physical examinations indicated he had been sexually abused .'
' Buckey was arrested in September of that year, but was released as the investigation continued and widened to include six other teachers at the Manhattan Beach nursery school, among them his grandmother, dozens of "uncharged suspects," and eight other South Bay nursery schools .'
' The Manhattan Beach Police Department sent a form letter to hundreds of McMartin school parents asking for information, and a wave of hysteria swept through the affluent beach town.'
" Many parents took their youngsters to Children's Institute International, a Los Angeles child-abuse diagnostic and treatment center, for evaluation; the majority were told that their children had been victimized ."
' In March, 1984, Ray Buckey was rearrested, along with his sister, Peggy Ann Buckey, his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, his grandmother, Virginia McMartin, and teachers Betty Raidor, Babette Spitler and Mary Ann Jackson.'
' A county grand jury had indicted them on 115 counts; that indictment was superseded in May by a criminal complaint charging them with 208 counts involving 41 children .'
' The case was hastily filed, and it was flawed from the beginning.'
' Then-Dist. Atty. Robert Philibosian, running for reelection, and the media, which caught wind of the investigation, were pressing for action .'
" Children's Institute International, deluged with concerned parents, enlisted untrained therapists to assess the children, resulting in videotaped interviews filled with leading and suggestive questions that would later prove embarrassing to the prosecution and provide the defense with grounds for claiming that the alleged victims had been programmed to believe that they had been molested ."
' Hysteria grew.'
' Hundreds of South Bay children had fallen victim to a nationwide conspiracy and pornography ring, it was alleged, and an angry mob spray-painted "Ray Must Die" on the walls of the nursery school and began digging up an adjacent vacant lot in search of animal remains .'
' The 18-month preliminary hearing, which began in the fall of 1984, was marked by frequent shouting matches between three prosecutors, nine defense attorneys and Municipal Judge Aviva Bobb, and lengthy questioning of child witnesses that lasted in one instance for 16 days .'
' Los Angeles was riveted by the daily images of youngsters clambering atop a booster chair in their Sunday best to face their alleged molesters.'
' They munched cookies, swigged root beer, and sometimes sobbed as they told of their experiences at McMartin .'
' Perhaps the most poignant moment came when an 8-year-old girl told in a wispy voice of having been raped, photographed, tied up and placed in a dark closet by her teachers five years earlier .'
' In the end, Bobb ordered all seven defendants to stand trial on 135 charges, telling each, "The court believes there is sufficient cause to believe you are guilty".'
' The remaining charges had been dropped after only 14 of the scheduled child witnesses came forward to testify.'
' One child was allowed to testify by closed-circuit television, under a new state law passed especially for the McMartin case .'
' But a week later, in January, 1986, the new district attorney, Ira Reiner, who had inherited the case from Philibosian, dropped charges against five of the seven defendants, citing "incredibly weak evidence" and deciding to proceed only against Ray Buckey and his mother .'
' The trial itself began with jury selection in April, 1987.'
' Testimony began in July.'
' The scope of the trial was narrowed again when several parents decided not to allow their children to testify.'
' Eventually nine of 11 named victims took the witness stand, all sticking to their earlier accounts, but for minor inconsistencies .'
' Toddlers at the time of their alleged abuse and now nearing adolescence, they described in graphic detail the abuses they say they suffered at the hands of the Buckeys.'
' Their testimony was often raw and unsettling.'
" The children's allegations were supported by medical evidence testified to by physicians ."
' But both Buckey and his mother also took the stand and staunchly maintained their innocence.'
' And fellow teachers, including former defendants, testified that no improprieties in the small school could have occurred without their knowledge .'
' The prosecution sought to show that the children repeatedly had been abused sexually, but silenced for years by threats, and also that their child-like efforts to tell their parents that something was wrong had been ignored or misinterpreted .'
' The defense contended that nothing untoward happened at the school, but that the children were programmed by therapists to believe that something bad had happened to them.'
' It claimed that their stories defied common sense and that the medical evidence was unreliable and perhaps fabricated .'
' The 6-year-long case was marked by twists and turns and tragedies, prompting the judge to comment that it had "poisoned" everyone it had touched.'
' Day after day, it was punctuated with the unexpected and bizarre:'
' * Ailing family matriarch Virginia McMartin, now 82, wrote poetry, conducted colorful hallway interviews and tested the judge\'s patience with such outbursts as, "This awful court.'
' These awful people.'
' These awful lies" .'
' * Therapist Kee MacFarlane, who conducted many of the interviews in which children first disclosed that they had been molested, came under fire when it was revealed not only that she had minimal previous experience in the field but also that she was involved romantically with the television newsman who broke the story .'
' * Former prosecutor Glenn Stevens became a key defense witness after leaking information that he believed that the defendants were innocent, and signed a movie contract to tell his revised version of events .'
' * A 10-year-old boy, testifying at the preliminary hearing, identified everyone from the city attorney and a movie star to a priest and four nuns as among his molesters, and painted a picture of marching with his classmates to a cemetery where they dug up corpses with shovels and pick-axes .'
' KEY FIGURES IN THE McMARTIN TRIAL'
' THE JUDGE:'
' WILLIAM R.'
' POUNDERS, 50  Superior Court judge since 1985.'
' A former state prosecutor who also did appellate work, he was assigned to the case after the litigants rejected three other judges as prejudiced.'
" An intellectual who often uses expressions derived from his Air Force experience building nuclear missiles, Pounders' strengths are meticulous organization and an extensive knowledge of the law, which he augments with a 3-by-5 index card file system, as well as a new computer."
' A graduate of Loyola Law School, he is widely respected as a fair and thorough judge .'
' THE DEFENDANTS:'
' RAY BUCKEY, 31  Key defendant in the McMartin case, Buckey is the grandson of nursery school founder Virginia McMartin and son of co-defendant Peggy McMartin Buckey.'
" A quiet man who is a college dropout and has admitted having problems with drugs and alcohol, Buckey worked briefly at a San Diego child care center before joining his family's enterprise in Manhattan Beach."
' He was charged on 52 counts of child molestation involving 11 children and one count of conspiracy shared with his mother.'
' He denied all allegations against him .'
' PEGGY MCMARTIN BUCKEY, 63  Co-defendant in the McMartin case, she both directed the Virginia McMartin Pre-School and taught there.'
' She also hired her son as a teacher.'
' A talkative, religious woman who drew pictures throughout the tedious proceedings and crocheted during breaks, she was charged on 12 counts of molestation involving four children and one count of conspiracy.'
' She has maintained that neither she nor any member of her staff engaged in improper conduct .'
' THE PROSECUTORS:'
' LAEL R.'
' RUBIN, 47  Co-prosecutor.'
' A former high school English teacher, Rubin was a latecomer to the legal profession, graduating from the University of West Los Angeles School of Law in 1978.'
' She quickly distinguished herself after joining the district attorney\'s office, successfully prosecuting "Black Cathy" Wilson for child pornography, Harry Sassounian for the assassination of the Turkish consul general in Los Angeles, and his brother, Harout Sassounian, for firebombing the Turkish consul general\'s house.'
' She is the only original prosecutor remaining on the McMartin case .'
' ROGER J. GUNSON, 50  Co-prosecutor.'
" A 20-year veteran of the district attorney's office and a graduate of UCLA Law School, the soft-spoken, unassuming Gunson most recently served as head deputy in the Sex Crimes and Child Abuse Division."
' He successfully prosecuted film director Roman Polanski for unlawful sex with a minor, and Susan Brophy, wife of former state assemblyman Bill Brophy, for vehicular manslaughter .'
' THE DEFENSE ATTORNEYS:'
' DANIEL G.'
' DAVIS, 43  Defense attorney representing Ray Buckey.'
' A graduate of the University of Texas law school, Davis was a civil attorney with the firm of Lillick McHose & Charles for two years before turning to criminal law.'
' Initially hired by the Buckey family, he was appointed to finish the case after their money ran out.'
' He owns the now-defunct nursery school .'
' DEAN R.'
' GITS, 45  Defense attorney representing Peggy McMartin Buckey.'
' A gentlemanly, cum laude graduate of the William Mitchell College of Law in St. Paul, Gits describes himself as "a simple country lawyer from Minnesota".'
' Known for his painstakingly thorough work, he was a deputy public defender for nearly nine years before going into private practice with the firm of Overland, Berke, Wesley, Gits, Randolph & Levanas.'
' He has more than 15 years of criminal trial experience.'
' He was court-appointed to the McMartin case at its beginning .'
' McMARTIN TRIAL CHRONOLOGY'
' Aug. 12, 1983  Initial complaint filed against Ray Buckey .'
' Sept. 7, 1983  Ray Buckey arrested and released .'
' March 22, 1984  Buckey and six others, including his sister, mother and grandmother, are indicted on 115 counts of child molestation and conspiracy .'
" May 23, 1984  District attorney's office files 208-count complaint that supersedes indictment ."
' June 8, 1984  Preliminary hearing for Ray Buckey begins .'
' Aug. 17, 1984  Consolidated preliminary hearing for seven defendants begins .'
' October, 1984  Sheriff\'s task force is created to investigate "uncharged McMartin suspects" and other South Bay nursery schools .'
' Jan. 9, 1986  Municipal Court Judge Aviva Bobb orders all seven defendants to stand trial .'
' Jan. 17, 1986  District Atty. Ira Reiner drops charges against five of the seven defendants .'
' Dec. 19, 1986  Mother whose allegations triggered investigation is found dead in her home .'
' April 20, 1987  Jury selection begins .'
" July 13, 1987  Trial of Ray Buckey and Peggy McMartin Buckey gets under way with opening statements, followed by presentation of prosecution's case ."
' Oct. 19, 1988  Defense begins presentation of its case .'
' Oct. 12, 1989  Final arguments begin .'
' Nov. 2, 1989  Case goes to the jury .'
' Nov. 29, 1989  First verdict returned, kept under seal .'
' Jan. 11, 1990  Fifty-second verdict returned .'
' Jan. 17, 1990  Jury deadlocks on remaining 13 counts .'
' Jan. 18, 1990  Verdicts announced .'
' Photo, COLOR, Defendants Ray Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, after the jury verdicts were read.'
" Photo, Peggy McMartin Buckey embraces Daniel Davis, her son's attorney, in the courthouse hallway after the 'not guilty' verdicts were read."
' RICK MEYER / Los Angeles Times; Photo, WILLIAM R.'
' POUNDERS; Photo, RAY BUCKEY; Photo, PEGGY MCMARTIN BUCKEY; Photo, LAEL R.'
' RUBIN; Photo, ROGER J.'
' GUNSON; Photo, DANIEL G.'
' DAVIS; Photo, DEAN R. GITS'
' Chronology'
' VIRGINIA MCMARTIN PRESCHOOL; BUCKEY, RAYMOND; BUCKEY, PEGGY MCMARTIN; CHILD ABUSE; CHILD MOLESTATION; TRIALS'
' LA012090-0110'
' 164704'
' January 20, 1990, Saturday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 30; Column 1; Metro Desk'
' 1363 words'
' MCMARTIN LAWSUITS MAY GO ON FOR YEARS'
' By CAROL McGRAW, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' Though the historic McMartin Pre-School criminal trial finally has ended in acquittals, a host of civil lawsuits generated by the Manhattan Beach molestation case conceivably could keep the issue alive in the courts for decades, legal experts say .'
' A confusing array of civil actions await resolution.'
' These include a federal civil rights suit filed Friday by Peggy McMartin Buckey against her accusers and others; a lawsuit filed by former defendants against a television station and reporter and suits the pre-school owners have filed against their liability insurance carriers .'
' Also, Ray Buckey might file a federal suit similar to that of his mother, said his attorney, Scott Bernstein.'
' And an attorney representing several parents of McMartin attendees said they might now refile lawsuits against the pre-school for emotional distress allegedly suffered by the children .'
' "I\'m convinced this case will never end," Eli Gauna, who represents Babette Spitler, a former teacher at the school, said wearily.'
' "It will always be there, until everyone who was ever involved gets to old age or dies" .'
' In the criminal case  the longest and costliest criminal proceeding in U.S. history  Ray Buckey, 31, and his mother Peggy McMartin Buckey, 63, were acquitted Thursday of 52 counts of molestation involving 11 youngsters who attended the family nursery school in Manhattan Beach.'
' The jury deadlocked on 13 remaining counts, and a mistrial was declared on those allegations.'
' A decision is expected next week over whether those charges will be refiled against Ray Buckey .'
' The verdict was a high mark, but not the final moment, in a lengthy and entangled legal saga.'
' The criminal case began in March, 1984, when seven McMartin teachers were indicted by a county grand jury on 115 counts of molestation.'
' The indictment was superseded by a criminal complaint of 208 counts of molestation and conspiracy .'
' After an 18-month preliminary hearing, all seven were ordered to stand trial.'
' Defendants included Buckey; his mother; his grandmother, Virginia McMartin, who was the school founder; his sister Peggy Ann Buckey; and teachers Spitler, Betty Raidor and Mary Ann Jackson.'
' But a week after the hearing ended, Dist.'
' Atty. Ira Reiner dropped charges against the latter five defendants citing "incredibly weak evidence" .'
' Even before the criminal case went to trial, civil litigation already was in the works.'
' In 1984, a handful of lawsuits were filed by 22 families seeking monetary damages against the school for medical bills, cost of psychiatric therapy and emotional distress arising from the alleged molestations.'
" But those lawsuits later were withdrawn to prevent the children's psychiatric histories from being introduced as evidence in the criminal case ."
' Greg Mooney, an attorney who represented some of the plaintiffs, explained that during the criminal preliminary hearing, defense attorneys had sought psychiatric records of the alleged victims.'
' Defense attorneys argued that they should be entitled to the records because the children had waived their patient-therapist confidentiality by filing civil suits in which their psychiatric histories would be at issue .'
' "The civil suits were withdrawn so they would not become an issue in the criminal case," Mooney said .'
' He said Friday, however, that the civil lawsuits can now be refiled.'
' Mooney said a decision on whether to refile will be made only after authorities decide what to do with the 13 remaining criminal counts .'
' "It\'s impossible to predict how many parents will want to sue," Mooney said.'
' "Somewhere between a handful and a bushelful" .'
' Any new suits would have to be filed only on behalf of the children.'
' The parents could not seek damages on their own, because the one-year statute of limitations  the deadline in which a lawsuit can be filed  has passed .'
' Under state law, children who allege abuse have until they are 19 years old to file.'
' Many of the children who attended McMartin are now entering their early teens, but the youngest of those who attended the school then is now 8 years old .'
' Legal experts, however, say some courts have held that child abuse victims can file at any time in their life.'
' In the so-called delayed-discovery theory, a statute of limitations does not take effect until the victim actually becomes aware of molestation, and some victims might suppress memories of such attacks for years .'
' "It\'s a possibility that hangs over the former defendants," said attorney Gauna, noting a recent landmark California court decision that set aside the statute of limitations for certain victims .'
' Mooney said he knows of families that, seeking legal advantage, waited for the criminal trial to end before contemplating civil action.'
' He explained that some families believed they might have a better advantage in civil court rather than in a criminal case: the burden of proof in civil litigation is the preponderance of the evidence, not reasonable doubt, as in a criminal trial.'
' Also, in a civil case, only nine of the 12 jurors must agree on a verdict.'
' Criminal convictions require unanimous juries .'
' Whether the families would be willing to tackle more years of legal proceedings is yet to be seen.'
" And some families question whether the McMartin defendants' insurance carriers would pay out to plaintiffs who successfully sued the school ."
' "There hasn\'t been any decisions yet.'
' The parents need a little space between the events of this week and deciding what they will do," Mooney said.'
' "There is some sentiment that says, \'Let\'s just put this behind us\'.'
' But there is also sentiment among others that maybe they should pick up the civil case where the criminal case left off .'
' "They heard the jurors when they said they believed that things happened to the children.'
' They think maybe since the criminal jury couldn\'t get the higher standard of proof, a civil jury would bring about a resolution" .'
' Said one McMartin attendee\'s parent, who asked not to be identified: "I might be tempted to file a civil suit to provide a trust fund for my child.'
' But there apparently isn\'t any money there to be had".'
' The only other reasons for filing such a suit, the parent added, would be "to work through a lot of emotional things, and we have already done that by participating in the criminal proceedings" .'
' Gauna, Spitler\'s attorney, said the litigation will go on because "maybe a half-dozen to a dozen hard-line parents won\'t let it go away.'
' They will live this case until the day they die" .'
' Meanwhile, already wending its way through court is a lawsuit filed by the early defendants.'
' Peggy Ann Buckey, Virginia McMartin, Spitler and Raidor are suing the television station, the reporter who broke the McMartin story and others .'
' The suit alleges that the station and reporter, Wayne Satz, were "creating rather than reporting the news".'
' A lower court held that the station, KABC, was protected from the action on constitutional grounds, but a state appellate court ruled the case should proceed to trial, and the state Supreme Court upheld that decision .'
' The case, now in the early pretrial stages, is being watched closely, because it could set precedent in the field of press law, experts said .'
' Another suit pits former McMartin defendants and the pre-school against their liability insurance carriers.'
' The McMartin side alleges that the insurance carriers were required by the policy to pay for their attorney bills .'
' While the insurers have paid a portion of the defense costs, they contend the defendants should have used only one attorney.'
' However, the defendants are arguing that because of possible conflicts of interest, each needed their own counsel.'
' One of the former defendants, preschool teacher Maryann Jackson, settled out of court .'
' As it becomes apparent that McMartin cases will stretch out for years to come, parents and the former criminal defendants alike are trying to resign themselves to the inevitability that the matter may be one they can never leave behind.'
' Soon, some of the children will be able to make their own legal decisions .'
' Noted one parent: "It\'s really not our decision as parents anymore.'
' These children will soon be adults" .'
' VIRGINIA MCMARTIN PRESCHOOL; BUCKEY, RAYMOND; BUCKEY, PEGGY MCMARTIN; CHILD ABUSE; CHILD MOLESTATION; CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS; SUITS; TRIALS; LIABILITY INSURANCE; INSURANCE INDUSTRY; KABC (TELEVISION STATION); SATZ, WAYNE'
' LA012190-0194'
' 165252'
' January 21, 1990, Sunday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 33; Column 1; Metro Desk'
' 886 words'
' TRIAL FINALE IS ONLY THE BEGINNING OF TV DEALS;'
' MEDIA: MCMARTIN STORY IS HEADED FOR THE SMALL SCREEN AND BOOKSTORE SHELVES.'
' BUT RETELLING THE CASE PRESENTS SOME TRICKY LEGAL AND MORAL PROBLEMS .'
' By SCOTT HARRIS, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' Geraldo Rivera was interviewing Peggy Ann Buckey on TV.'
' Abby Mann watched, listened  and saw the makings of a movie .'
' Prosecutors had just dropped charges of child molestation against Buckey, one of the original seven defendants in the McMartin Pre-School case.'
' In that 1986 interview, Peggy Buckey was "quite eloquent" in arguing that charges against her brother, Ray, and mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, should be dropped as well, Mann recalled Friday .'
' Mann, an Oscar- and Emmy-winning screenwriter and producer, recognized a theme he had tapped before: the hysteria of a witch hunt.'
' Soon, Mann became a controversial figure in the case itself  but he got the inside track on movie and book deals.'
" And Thursday's not-guilty verdicts in Ray and Peggy McMartin Buckey's trial gave Mann the happy ending he was hoping for  happy, at least, from his point of view ."
" But Mann and his wife, Myra, who have an 800-page manuscript in the works for Random House and say they are close to finishing a screenplay, aren't expected to monopolize the telling of the 6-year-old McMartin case  or the perspective ."
' At least two other books are planned, and at least one prominent television movie producer besides Mann says he is developing a McMartin project.'
' That producer, who requested anonymity, said he is certain other producers are considering projects as well .'
' "It\'s definitely a TV thing," one agent said.'
' "Just one of those perfect, high-concept, lurid television M-O-Ws"  an acronym for movies-of-the-week.'
' "The producer chases down participants, gets rights  and then it\'s an easy sale to networks" .'
' Not that easy, network executives say .'
' Unlike the hottest true-life property of the moment  the Stuart murder case in Boston, which has CBS and The Fries Co. racing to produce the first docudrama  McMartin creates some tricky legal and moral problems.'
" The jury's deadlock on 13 counts creates an ambiguity: Is Ray Buckey a villain or a victim?"
' "None of the three networks would touch Ray Buckey\'s story," predicted Steven White, an independent producer who used to be a movie executive for both NBC and ABC.'
' "First, the man is still accused of 13 crimes.'
' . . . If I were sitting in my old job, I wouldn\'t touch this thing with a 10-foot pole" .'
' "It raises so many legal and ethical questions at this point it would have to be looked at with a microscope," said Larry Strichman, a senior executive in movie development at CBS .'
' "What is the story you want to tell?'
' Is it a story of justice done or justice denied?'
" And it's real unclear at the moment what the answer to that question is."
' Unlike a documentary, it\'s hard to take an ambiguous position in a docudrama" .'
' Producers think network qualms can be overcome, however.'
' One pointed out that the Billionaire Boys Club docudrama was broadcast before all the trials regarding the slayings were over .'
' "There are no rules," the producer said .'
" Hollywood's role in the McMartin case came to prominence early."
' Not long after the first allegations of child molestation six years ago, several producers pitched projects to networks.'
' Though no explicit McMartin story was produced, child abuse and molestation was a recurring subject.'
' One CBS fictional movie last year  "Did You Know the Muffin Man"?  featured a preschool and satanic child molesters .'
' Mann, whose writing credits include the Academy Award-winning "Judgment at Nuremberg" in 1961, won an Emmy for "The Marcus-Nelson Murders," a three-hour "Kojak" drama based on a true case in which a black youth was wrongly convicted of the killings of two white women.'
' The prosecutors, the media and the community seemed blinded by hysteria, Mann said .'
' Gaining the confidence of the McMartin defendants, the Manns were ultimately hired as "investigators" by the defense.'
' That and their earlier alliance with former prosecutor Glenn Stevens sparked charges from parents of alleged child molestation victims of a conspiracy to obstruct justice for monetary gain .'
' Stevens, who said he had asked to be removed from the McMartin trial team in October, 1985, said he and Mann agreed in March, 1986, to produce a book and movie about the case with the understanding that their discussions would become public after the trial and appeals were over.'
" But in late 1986, Mann released interviews with Stevens in which Stevens said he doubted the defendants' guilt."
' Mann said his attorneys had advised him that to withhold them would be an obstruction of justice .'
" Outraged parents suggested the real aim was a not-guilty verdict, which would improve the value of Mann's movie deal."
' But Stevens and the Manns have said their ambition from the start has been to get the truth out .'
' At least two other perspectives may reach the bookstores.'
" Ray Buckey's lawyer, Danny Davis, and writer Gordon Dillow, former columnist for the defunct Los Angeles Herald Examiner, have a book proposal that is being pitched to a variety of publishers ."
' Times staff writer Lois Timnick, who covered the case from its early stages through the trial, also is planning a book .'
" Mann said his script isn't a courtroom drama ."
' "It\'s not a trial movie.'
" It's what happens to human beings."
' I intend to be fair to the parents.'
" I don't mean to be vindicative."
' . . . For the most part, I have great sympathy for the parents" .'
' Photo, Producer Abby Mann is writing a McMartin book and screenplay.'
' Los Angeles Times'
' Series; Sidebar'
' TELEVISION PROGRAMS; VIRGINIA MCMARTIN PRESCHOOL; BUCKEY, RAYMOND; BUCKEY, PEGGY MCMARTIN; CHILD ABUSE; CHILD MOLESTATION; TRIALS; MANN, ABBY; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS; BOOKS; MOTION PICTURE INDUSTRY; TELEVISION INDUSTRY; WRITERS; REPORTERS'
' LA012290-0036'
' 165354'
' January 22, 1990, Monday, Home Edition'
' Metro; Part B; Page 1; Column 5; Metro Desk'
' 624 words'
' MCMARTIN CASE FALLOUT TAKES ITS TOLL ON MINISTER;'
" RELIGION: HE SAYS YEARS OF 'EXTREME STRESS' FIGHTING RUMORS THAT SATANIC RITUALS WERE PERFORMED AT HIS CHURCH HAVE FORCED HIM TO SEEK DISABILITY RETIREMENT ."
' By SHAWN HUBLER, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' A Hermosa Beach minister who for years has tried in vain to quell rumors tying his church to the McMartin Pre-School scandal announced Sunday that the "extreme stress" of fallout from the case has forced him to seek disability retirement .'
' The Rev. John D. Eales of St. Cross Episcopal Church  where McMartin pupils claimed they had been forced to take part in satanic rituals  told the congregation during his sermon that, "after much prayer and consultation," he realized his health could not withstand the continuing harassment and vandalization the church has borne as a result of the unsubstantiated claims .'
' The McMartin case, which prompted the longest and most expensive criminal trial in U.S. history, ended Thursday with the acquittal of defendants Ray Buckey and Peggy McMartin Buckey on a total of 52 counts of child molestation at the Manhattan Beach school.'
' The jurors deadlocked on 13 other counts .'
' Nonetheless, the case continues to divide and haunt the South Bay communities where it was centered .'
' St. Cross was never named as a defendant in the case and neither Eales nor any other official of the venerable seaside church was ever formally charged .'
" But since 1985, the church has struggled to shake a McMartin pupil's allegation during the preliminary hearing that, six years earlier, he and other students had been forced to witness animal sacrifices and satanic rituals at the altar of St. Cross ."
" When the then-10-year-old boy's allegation was reported in the local media, other children claimed that they too had been abused at the church."
' Though investigators using sophisticated equipment checked the altar and found no trace of blood, attendance dropped drastically at the church and the church-run preschool, which closed soon afterward .'
" The allegations never died, despite the passage of time and the announcement by Los Angeles County sheriff's investigators that they had found no evidence to support the children's claims ."
' Periodically over the years, Eales said, he would receive threatening phone calls at the church and rectory, and the harassment increased as the McMartin case began to wind down .'
' Twice in December, the church and rectory were pelted with bottles and rotten eggs.'
' In a note left in the rectory driveway after the second attack, the vandals, who identified themselves as "the Beach Cities\' Conscience," warned that "there is simply no place for Satan worship in this town" .'
' The harassment was exacerbated by the arrest shortly after Christmas of a youth counselor at the church, who was charged with molesting two teen-age boys he had met through his work at St. Cross .'
' The counselor, it turned out, was a convicted child molester who had been brought into the fold about a year and a half earlier by an assistant pastor who was hired after the McMartin case broke.'
' Then, just days after that assistant pastor resigned, the McMartin verdict came down, and, according to several church members, the anonymous phone calls returned .'
' "It\'s kind of like a violin string  you can only tighten it so far and then it snaps," Eales said Sunday .'
' Though at 61 Eales has 11 more years until the diocese would mandate his retirement, he said his doctors told him that "the kind of stress you have been under kills" .'
' Because of that, he said, he plans to extend a medical leave already scheduled to allow for some minor surgery next week and retire a year short of the 10-year tenure that was his goal when he came to St. Cross .'
' His decision shocked and saddened parishioners, who credited Eales with shepherding the church through difficult times .'
' Said Ron Russell, a 16-year member of the congregation:'
' "We brought a good, strong man in here, and  well, this has ruined him" .'
' EALES, JOHN D; SAINT CROSS EPISCOPAL CHURCH; VIRGINIA MCMARTIN PRESCHOOL; CHILD MOLESTATION; OCCULT SCIENCES; CLERGY; CHURCHES; HARASSMENT; VANDALISM; RUMORS; RETIREMENT; STRESS'
