' AP880816-0135'
' AP-NR-08-16-88 1042EDT'
' r i PM-Poland-Mine 08-16 0285'
' PM-Poland-Mine,0298'
' Miners Strike On Anniversary Of Solidarity'
' By GIRARD C. STEICHEN'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WARSAW, Poland (AP)'
' More than 4,000 workers at a coal mine in the southern city of Jastrzebie went on strike today to demand legalization of Solidarity and higher wages, a spokeswoman said.'
' The strike in Jastrzebie, about 275 miles southwest of Warsaw, comes on the eighth anniversary of the founding of the outlawed trade federation.'
' Solidarity spokeswoman Katarzyna Ketrzynska said workers on the overnight shift at the Manifest Lipcowy mine stayed outside the mine shaft all night and were joined by workers arriving for the morning shift.'
' She said security officers blocked miners on the afternoon shift, which starts at 2 p.m., from entering the grounds to join the striking miners.'
' The strike began at noon today, according to Katrzynska.'
' She said the miners are demanding the legalization of Solidarity and reinstatement of workers fired for union activities.'
' The workers are also calling for higher wages and better working conditions, and are requesting two lawyers and two economists to assist them in the negotiations.'
' Manifest Lipcowy is the second mine in the industrial region of Silesia to experience unrest.'
' Workers at the Rudna copper mine near the city of Wroclaw staged a protest rally Monday to demand improved safety conditions and the return of Solidarity activists to work.'
' Three members of Solidarity were barred Saturday from working.'
' Solidarity was crushed in 1981, when the government imposed martial law, and was banned nearly a year later by parliament.'
' On Aug. 16, 1980, workers at factories around the northern port of Gdansk joined striking shipyard workers to form Solidarity, the first and only independent trade federation in the Soviet bloc .'
' AP880817-0124'
' AP-NR-08-17-88 1201EDT'
' u i PM-Poland 3rdLd-Writethru a0563 08-17 0782'
' PM-Poland, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0563,0807'
' Port Workers, Coal Miners Join Strike To Legalize Solidarity'
' Eds: LEADS with four grafs to UPDATE with strike at port.'
" Pick up 3rd pvs, `Andrzej Andrzejczak...'"
' By DEBORAH G. SEWARD'
' Associated Press Writer'
' JASTRZEBIE, Poland (AP)'
' Port workers in Szczecin and southwestern coal miners today declared sympathy strikes with miners demanding the legalization of Solidarity, opposition activists said.'
' In support of an estimated 3,000 colleagues striking for a second day at the July Manifesto mine in Jastrzebie, workers at the nearby Morcinek mine refused today to take up their tools and launched their own occupation strike.'
' Port workers occupied the docks in Szezecin, about 250 miles northwest of Warsaw, and set up a 15-member strike committee, said Jan Kostecki, a leader of the independent union federation.'
' A local prosecutor immediately declared the strike illegal, Solidarity officials said.'
" Andrzej Andrzejczak, head of the Morcinek mine strike committee, said: ``We support all of the demands of the July Manifesto mine workers''."
' The mine is about 12 miles south of July Manifesto, where strikers were demanding legalization of the outlawed independent labor federation, pay raises and reinstatement of workers fired for trade union activites.'
" Police ringing July Manifesto, one of Poland's largest coal mines, today turned away area residents who tried to bring food to the strikers."
' Andrzejczak said the Morcinek miners broke off talks with management when they were refused access to loudspeakers and contact with the strikers at July Manifesto.'
" He said miners erected a large Polish flag atop the administration building and were blocking the complex's main entrance."
' It was not immediately known how many workers were involved.'
' The second strike came as Solidarity strike committee members met with management and representatives of the Industry Ministry at the July Manifesto colliery.'
' Adam Kowalczyk, a regional Solidarity leader, said more workers were joining colleagues inside by leaping over police barricades.'
" The strike committee issued a communique today saying the workers would not end their stoppage until their demands are met and charged: ``The mine management is trying to end the strike by hunger''."
' Police surrounded the mine after workers put down their tools on Tuesday.'
' Witnesses said about 600 officers were outside and about 3,000 strikers inside.'
' The strikes mark the eighth anniversary of the birth of the Solidarity, which Communist authorities crushed in a 1981 military crackdown.'
" Miners leaving July Manifesto this morning said wage demands were based on hardships caused by Poland's worsening economy, including 60 percent inflation."
" ``The economy is in ruins,'' one told The Associated Press."
" ``Miners cannot live on their salaries because of recent price hikes''."
' Miners earn nearly twice the average national salary and receive extra benefits because of the vital role they play in the economy.'
" Poland is the world's fourth largest exporter of coal, and coal is the nation's leading export."
' July Manifesto, a hotbed of labor activism during the strike wave that spawned Solidarity, is one of five coal mines in the region.'
' Solidarity adviser Jacek Kuron said there were no reports of violence and police made no attempt to move into the mine, which is 280 miles southwest of Warsaw and employs about 9,000 workers.'
' The state-run PAP news agency, in a dispatch late Tuesday, said the strike was illegal.'
" PAP said the miners were warned that ``they may be held responsible for their illegal actions''."
" The July Manifesto mine is in Silesia, Poland's industrial heartland."
' Eight years ago, a wave of mine strikes in Silesia ended with the signing at July Manifesto of the last of three agreements that established Solidarity across the nation.'
' The pact also won work-free weekends.'
' Solidarity leaders said the strike began Tuesday when overnight shift workers refused to take up their tools.'
' They were joined by workers arriving for the morning shift, Kuron said.'
' Kuron said mine management then locked out members of the afternoon shift to prevent them from joining the strike.'
' Solidarity spokesmen said workers at the nearby Borynia mine staged a brief sympathy rally but went back to work Tuesday afternoon.'
' Also Tuesday, security officials briefly detained 10 Solidarity activists at the Rudna copper mine near the city of Wroclaw in lower Silesia.'
' That mine has also been the scene of unrest in recent months, where workers have demanded improved safety conditions.'
' Five strikes in Poland from April 25 to May 10, and brief stoppages or strike threats in 25 more work places, constituted the worst labor unrest in the country since the 1981 martial-law crackdown.'
' One of the stoppages, at a steel mill near Krakow, was broken up by security forces.'
' The workers in those strikes also demanded the legalization of Solidarity, along with wage increases .'
' AP890616-0230'
' AP-NR-06-16-89 1418EST'
' u f PM-CoalStrike 3rdLd-Writethru f0134 06-16 0665'
' PM-Coal Strike, 3rd Ld-Writethru, f0134,0682'
' Sympathy Strikes Spread to Other States'
" Eds: SUBS 3rd graf, One United...', with 2 grafs to CORRECT that Pittston, not union members, dropped out of the Bituminous Coal Operators Association, add background."
" Picks up 4th graf pvs, `UMW officials...' ."
' By MARK PAXTON'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CHARLESTON, W.Va. (AP)'
' More than 10,000 coal miners in four states were off the job today to express sympathy for miners in Virginia and West Virginia who have waged a bitter strike since April against the Pittston Coal Group.'
' Miners in Pennsylvania and Kentucky today became the third and fourth states to report walkouts at coal companies.'
' The sympathy strikes began Monday in West Virginia and spread to Indiana late Thursday.'
" One United Mine Workers representative said today that the Indiana walkout was prompted by Thursday night's telecast of CBS' ``48 Hours,'' which focused on the Pittston strike, in which 1,600 miners have been off the job since April."
' Pittston dropped out of the Bituminous Coal Operators Association to negotiate with the union independently, and the two sides have failed to reach an agreement despite 16 months of negotiations.'
' UMW officials gave conflicting indications of whether they are responsible for the wildcat strike.'
' Some said they are asking union members to return to work, but Tommy Buchanan, international executive board member in UMW District 20 in Birmingham, Ala., said today the final decision on whether 5,000 Alabama miners will join the strike will be with union President Richard Trumka.'
' ``It might be two days.'
' It might be a week.'
" It will start whenever it comes down from the union president,'' Buchanan said."
' Union spokesman Joe Corcoran was not in his office and has not returned phone calls this week.'
' The head of the coal industry bargaining unit said he had no plans to confer with the Pittston on the wildcat strikes.'
" ``I would no more try to tell someone else how to run their company than I would expect someone else to try to tell me how to run my company,'' said Robert H. Quenon, president of Peabody Holding Co., the nation's largest coal producer, and chairman of the Bituminous Coal Operators Association."
" Quenon flew to Charleston from St. Louis on Thursday to meet with reporters and express Peabody's and the association's concerns about the walkout."
' An estimated 2,300 United Mine Workers members stayed away from their jobs today in Pennsylvania.'
' Most worked for Rochester & Pittsburgh Coal Co. operations in central Pennsylvania, where 1,600 miners failed to report for work at midnight Thursday, said company spokesman Hank Waneck said.'
" About 290 miners at Peabody's Camp No. 1 mine in Morganfield, Ky."
" , didn't report for work today, said company spokesman Tom Clarke."
' At least 270 miners were off the job at two mines in Indiana today, spokesmen said.'
' Mark Arnold, a spokesman for UMW District 11 in Terre Haute, attributed the action to the CBS show.'
" ``When the miners saw that last night, that kind of set them off to where they decided to walk out,'' he said."
" About one-third of West Virginia's 24,000 miners were reported off the job today."
' Some 600 miners in Wise County, Va., who walked out earlier in the week returned to work this morning.'
' The coal companies contend the walkouts at companies other than Pittston violate a no-strike clause in the 1988 national contract the union signed with the association.'
' Pittston did not take part in that agreement.'
' Union officials have not returned phone calls this week, but in the past they have said they have not authorized the walkout.'
" ``I think the union leadership ought to exercise its leadership role and do what they can to lead the miners back to work,'' Quenon said."
" ``That's why we have a union."
" That's why we have an agreement with the union _ to set out the terms and conditions under which we will have labor to run our coal mines."
" ``And we expect that to be honored.''"
' AP890719-0248'
' AP-NR-07-19-89 0907EST'
' u f PM-Soviet-Strikes 1stLd-Writethru f0038 07-19 0775'
' PM-Soviet-Strikes, 1st Ld-Writethru, f0038,0800'
' Gorbachev Says Strikes Threaten to Spread'
' Eds: New thruout to ADD details of concessions offered in Prokopyevsk; CORRECTS spelling of Prokopyevsk and Kuznetsk.'
' No pickup .'
' By CAREY GOLDBERG'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MOSCOW (AP)'
' President Mikhail S. Gorbachev said today that thousands of striking coal miners and other workers are urging railway employees to join the work stoppage and that the unrest threatens his economic reforms.'
" Strikes have shut down more than 200 mines and factories in the country's two top coal-producing regions, official reports said."
' In a report to the Supreme Soviet, Gorbachev said they have resulted in a 1 million-ton drop in coal production.'
' Following Gorbachev to the podium, legislator Anatoly Saunin said each lost work day cost millions of rubles that might otherwise help improve living conditions.'
" ``You mustn't hold a knife to the throat'' of the government, he told strikers."
" Saunin, from the Donetsk region of the Ukraine, the country's top coal region, said the number of striking mines there increased from 20 on Tuesday to 58 today."
" ``Now there are reports of calls to railroad workers to join the strike as of Aug. 1,'' Gorbachev said during the parliamentary session, which was broadcast on television and radio."
" ``Such a development of events poses a threat to the implementation of plans projected by the policy of perestroika,'' he said, referring to his efforts to restructure the economy."
" Miners began walking out July 11 in Siberia's Kuznetsk Basin coal region."
' Workers in other industries in the region soon followed.'
' On Saturday, miners in the Donetsk coal basin began walking off the job.'
' The miners are demanding more local control over their industry as well as higher wages and better living conditions.'
' Gorbachev said he and Premier Nikolai I. Ryzhkov sent a telegram to miners in the Ukraine assuring them that any concessions granted to Siberian miners would apply to other mining regions as well.'
" He blamed some of the miners' discontent on ``anti-socialist'' elements but said he understood their basic demands."
" Government negotiations with strike committees have resolved most of the miners' demands, including those on pensions and overtime, but some longer-term questions will take up to a month to settle, and the miners are refusing any delay, he said."
' Central authorities have so far balked at granting miners more control over their industry.'
" If the strike spreads to other sectors of the economy, ``We may have to take such extreme measures that it will hurt what we've been doing,'' Gorbachev said, without specifying what steps he would take."
" He said the lost coal production could not be recovered by increasing the mines' output because they already work at full capacity."
' Recent reports have put the total number of strikers in the Donetsk and Kuznetsk regions at more than 112,000, but the number appeared to be rising.'
" Because of disrupted coal deliveries, the strike threatened ``a catastrophe'' at metallurgical and electrical power plants, Tass said."
' The Politburo sent to Kuznetsk Nikolai N. Slyunkov, a member of the ruling Communist Party body who worked several years in the tractor-building industry and has spoken about labor discipline.'
' He held marathon meetings with strikers Monday night and Tuesday and addressed 30,000 people in the main square of Prokopyevsk, 2,100 miles east of Moscow.'
' Miners in the Donetsk Basin are demanding a 40 percent wage increase for night work, improved living conditions, a fixed day off and retirement after 20 years of underground work.'
' They also demand that the Coal Mining Ministry trim its managerial staff.'
" Tass carried a report Tuesday denying that the Soviet Union's third major coal region, Karaganda in Kazakhstan, also was on strike."
' A proposed law on ending strikes and other labor conflicts is being rushed through the Supreme Soviet legislature, Tass said.'
" A spokesman for the strike committee in Prokopyevsk, Valery Legachev, said Tuesday that Slyunkov ``promised to increase the area's regular food supplies by 20 to 30 percent, as well as soap and washing powder''."
' Izvestia, the government newspaper, reported Tuesday that Slyunkov promised higher pay for night work, longer vacations and a doubling of the wholesale price of coal to pay for the benefits.'
" The strikes are believed to be the nation's worst since the 1920s, when the country was gripped in revolution, civil war and a power struggle."
' Records from that period are sketchy, but fighting was widespread and industrial production was severely disrupted.'
' Until Gorbachev came to power in 1985, the official media did not report job actions in the Soviet Union.'
' Underground reports described strikes that were of much shorter and not as widespread as those in Kuznetsk and Donetsk .'
' AP890720-0075'
' AP-NR-07-20-89 0950EST'
' u i PM-Soviet-Strikes 3rdLd-Writethru 07-20 0763'
' PM-Soviet-Strikes, 3rd Ld-Writethru,a0555,0787'
' Precede MOSCOW'
" Soviet Miners' Strikes Spread to Four New Areas"
' Eds: Leads with 14 grafs to UPDATE with miners in fourth coal region joining strike.'
' ADDS byline.'
" Pickup 13th pvs, ``President Mikhail...''"
' By BRYAN BRUMLEY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NOVOKUZNETSK, U.S.S.R. (AP)'
" Strikes by tens of thousands of miners in this Siberian coal region spread to four more of the Soviet Union's coal fields, Tass reported today."
' The official news agency said coal miners in Vorkuta in the far north, the Don River city of Rostov in southwestern Russia and the Ukrainian industrial center of Dnepropetrovsk walked out Wednesday.'
' Miners in the Karaganda region in Soviet Central Asia today refused to work, Tass said.'
" By evening, 14 mines in the region, home of the country's third-largest coal fields, were reported at a standstill."
' Tass said their demands were similar to those of striking miners in the Donetsk and Kuznetsk coal basins, who are seeking greater local control over their industries and better wages and living conditions.'
" Kuznetsk, in western Siberia, and Donetsk, in the Ukraine, are the country's two leading coal basins and the strikes amount to the country's worst labor unrest since the 1920s."
' Novokuznetsk is a major city in the Kuznetsk region, where the strikes began 10 days ago.'
' The government has acknowledged that living and working conditions for miners in the regions are abysmal and has made general pledges of improvements.'
' Tass reported Wednesday that some miners in Siberia had returned to work after the government made pay concessions.'
' The government also has promised to send extra meat, butter, sugar, tea, leather shoes, furniture and cars to relieve shortages in the region, the Communist Youth League newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda said today.'
' But the newspaper and Tass reported more disturbances in the Ukraine.'
' Komsomolskaya Pravda quoted a communist official in the Donetsk city of Makeyevka as saying, ``The scale of the strike is growing.'
" Practically all the coal enterprises of the city have stopped work''."
' Miners in Vorkuta, Rostov and Dnepropetrovsk all walked off the job on Wednesday, Tass said.'
" In Vorkuta, strikers sent a letter to the Kremlin asking for an ``urgent resolution of the sharp economic and social problems of the coal sector, and also specific problems of workers of the far north,'' Tass said."
" In Rostov, miners' economic demands included extra pay for evening and night shifts, longer vacations and an increase in the price of coal to world market prices, the news agency reported."
" In Dnepropetrovsk, which is 150 miles from Donetsk, workers' demands mirrored those of Donetsk and Kuznetsk miners."
" In Karaganda, strikers said they walked out to protest incomplete news accounts of miners' demands in the Kuznetsk strikes, according to Tass."
' President Mikhail S. Gorbachev said Wednesday the strikes could imperil his reforms and that there were reports of railway workers being urged to strike.'
" He said that if labor trouble spreads, ``We may have to take such extreme measures that it will hurt what we've been doing'' to overhaul the economy through greater attention to free-market mechanisms."
' He did not elaborate.'
' Strikes are rare in the Soviet Union and were ended by force before Gorbachev gained power in March 1985.'
" Tass today said that the Kuznetsk strike had reached ``a turning point,'' with nine out of 11 mining centers back at work."
' It was not known how many more employees were back on the job today.'
' On Wednesday, Tass said that 24,000 strikers in Kuznetsk were back at work and 150,000 remained on strike.'
' State television said Wednesday that the strike in the Donetsk basin had spread to 70 of its 120 mines, more than triple the previous number, and that mine construction workers had joined.'
" In a report from the Donetsk city of Yenakiyevo, television said steel and coke-chemical plants were ``on the verge of a stoppage'' for lack of coal."
' Earlier reports in the official press had said operations at steel and power plants were affected by short supplies of coal and coke.'
' Gorbachev told the national legislature Wednesday that the strikes had deprived the nation of more than 1 million tons of coal.'
' The government has agreed to most miner demands, including those on pensions and overtime, Gorbachev said.'
' But he said that settling some longer-term issues would take up to a month.'
' Tass outlined a concessions package that includes bonus pay to night shifts and for men using jackhammers.'
' Strikers also have complained about poor housing and shortages of consumer goods and food, and the government has made general pledges of improvements in those areas .'
' AP890721-0091'
' AP-NR-07-21-89 1239EDT'
' u i PM-Soviet-Strikes 2ndLd-Writethru a0510 07-21 0777'
' PM-Soviet-Strikes, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0510,0802'
' Siberian Miners Agree to Return, But Strikes Spread'
' Eds: Leads with 20 grafs to UPDATE with coal official giving details of Donetsk strikes, other details on regional strikes.'
' Pickup 19th pvs, `Tass today.. .'
' LaserPhoto NY4'
' By BRYAN BRUMLEY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' PROKOPYEVSK, U.S.S.R. (AP)'
' Coal miners in Siberia ended their strike today after exacting promises of better food, housing and working conditions, but the wave of unrest they launched continued in other key coal regions.'
" Some of the 150,000 miners who went on strike last week in Siberia's Kuznetsk coal basin region returned to work Thursday, and the rest went back today, strike leaders and the official Tass news agency said."
' Despite announcements that President Mikhail S.'
" Gorbachev's sweeping concessions _ including granting miners greater control over their industry _ apply nationwide, hundreds of thousands of miners stayed off the job elsewhere."
' In the largest coal region, the Donetsk Coal Basin of the Ukraine, more than 300,000 miners were on strike, the deputy minister of the coal industry, Alexander P. Fisun, told Izvestia.'
" In the Karaganda region of the southern republic of Kazakhstan, the Soviet Union's third-biggest coal-producing area, all 26 mines were at a standstill, and miners made more than 70 demands, Izvestia said."
' Strikes were also reported in the Pechora Coal Basin in the Russian republic, and Chervonograd in the western Ukraine, official media said.'
" The labor unrest is the Soviet Union's worst in six decades."
" Gorbachev has expressed sympathy for the strikers and placed much of the blame for the miners' deteriorating working and living conditions on leaders of the officially sanctioned trade unions."
" Still, he and other Communist leaders have warned that if the strikes don't end quickly, coal shortages will shut down much of the country's industry."
' On Wednesday, the Kuznetsk strike committee and members of a high-level government commission signed an agreement meeting many demands.'
' The workers were promised higher wages, increased deliveries of meat, sugar, soap, clothes, furniture and other consumer goods, more housing construction and _ most important _ a greater voice in running their industry.'
" ``It's a victory over the system that we've had in the Soviet Union for the last 70 years, a system in which we work hard but get little in return,'' said Pyotr A. Menayev, an engineer at the Taldinski Severny open pit mine on the outskirts of Prokopyevsk."
" Strike committee member Vyacheslav G. Akulov stressed that the miners had agreed to ``interrupt the strike, not to end it''."
" He said the miners would hold the government to its word: ``If the government doesn't keep its promises, we will go back on strike''."
' The 26-member strike committee met today with a half-dozen representatives to the national parliament and called for municipal elections to be advanced from the spring to the first half of November.'
" The last local elections in Kuznetsk were held two years ago, before Gorbachev's reforms made elections more democratic by offering multiple candidates."
" The strike wave began 11 days ago in Kuznetsk, the country's second-largest coal field."
' Tass said late Thursday that strikes had ended at six mines in the Donetsk region but that most mines in the area remained on strike.'
' Miners at three shafts in Chervonograd, near the Polish border, joined the walkout Thursday night, said Anatoly M. Dotsenko, a spokesman for the Ukrainian Helsinki Watch Group.'
' The coal industry employs more than 1 million workers.'
' Tass today quoted Coal Minister Mikhail I. Shchadov as saying the government agreed to make all Soviet coal operations economically and legally independent.'
' He said authorities had agreed to additional payments for night and evening shifts and to give workers Sundays off.'
" Beginning Aug. 1, mines and other industries in the ``coal mining complex'' will gain the right to sell for negotiated prices in the USSR and abroad products which they make over and above the state plan,'' Tass quoted the agreement as stipulating."
' It said local managers will be able to raise coal prices to reflect actual production costs.'
' Gorbachev is trying to end the longtime Soviet practice of setting prices for goods that bear no relation to their free-market value and encourage and end to central control of the economy.'
' Akulov said that beginning Jan. 1, the Kuznetzk coal basin will become economically autonomous.'
" ``The Coal Mining Ministry will continue to run the mines, but the miners will have a much greater say setting production levels and allocating the profits,'' he said."
" ``Our politics have gotten freer under perestroika,'' Akulov said of Gorbachev's economic reform program."
" ``But our living conditions have not improved''."
' Until Gorbachev rose to power in 1985, strikes were not tolerated .'
' AP891103-0200'
' AP-NR-11-03-89 2007EST'
' u i AM-Soviet-Strikes 11-03 0338'
' AM-Soviet-Strikes,0351'
' Soviet Miners Block Coal Shipments'
' MOSCOW (AP)'
' Thousands of miners in the northern Vorkuta region are expanding their strike and some are blocking coal shipments, the Soviet news media reported Friday.'
' The miners are demanding the government fulfill promises of improved living and job conditions.'
" Soviet officials have said the strikes could force fuel rationing during the Soviet Union's severe winter."
' Premier Nikolai I. Ryzhkov introduced a bill in parliament that would increase pension benefits by about 40 percent and upgrade benefits for coal miners, the official Tass news agency reported.'
" The Komsomolskaya Pravda youth newspaper, in an article giving a sympathetic view of the workers condition's in the Arctic Cirle coal-mining districts, said many miners do not see daylight for months because of their underground work and the sun dips below the horizon in the winter."
' A regional court in Vorkuta ruled that the latest round of strikes is illegal but did not impose any penalties.'
" The miners's unions said the decision will be appealed."
' Coal miners in the northern region and the Ukraine struck for two weeks this summer but returned to work in July after parliament passed a resolution promising reforms, including improved social and economic conditions.'
' The miners say the government has renedged on its promises.'
' The news media gave these accounts of the latest strikes: Workers at the Vorgashor mine in the Arctic Circle, the largest mine in the Vorkuta region, continued their strike for an eighth day, according to Tass.'
' Komsomolskaya Pravda said night-shift workers walked out at three mines in Vorkuta and at another one the miners were still working but were preventing the coal from being shipped outside the region.'
" In the Ukraine's Donetsk Coal Basin, the nation's major coal-producing area, miner representatives were discussing another strike."
' Tens of thousands of miners walked off the job for two hours Wednesday.'
' Tass said that in Donetsk the miners gathered in front of the House of Unions to demand that the government set a deadline for implementing reforms .'
' FBIS4-42027'
' "drsov126_f_94009"'
' FBIS-SOV-94-126'
' Daily Report'
' 29 Jun 1994'
' National Affairs'
' Mine Strikes Seen Directed Against Kravchuk'
' Mine Strikes Seen Directed Against Kravchuk'
' LD2906171094 Kiev UNIAN in Ukrainian 1330 GMT 29 Jun 94'
' LD2906171094'
' Kiev UNIAN'
' Ukrainian'
' BFN [Text] Donetsk Oblast [no date as received]  As UNIAN reported, miners at the "Ordzhonikidzevuhillya" coal production association and the "Yenakiyevo" and "Poltava" pits went on strike in Yenakiyevo on 27 June, demanding payment of wage arrears.'
' The strike continued at these mines on 28 June.'
' Some of the miners at the Karl Marx, "Chernovonyy Zhovten," "Chervonyy Profinter," and "Yunkom" pits joined the strike.'
" A total of 1,200 of the association's 2,248 workers are on strike."
' A rally consisting of 350 miners was held on 28 June near the town council building where demands were made to pay the wages and dismiss the director general of the "Ordzhonikidzevuhillya" production association.'
" A strike committee consisting of 12 persons was elected (one of the members is a former Komsomol leader and former USSR people's deputy Viktor Honcharov) and it was decided to continue the strike until the demands that had been raised have been completely fulfilled."
' On 28 June, 118 of 258 workers on the second shift at the "PivdennoDonbass" mine of the "Donetskvuhillya" production association in the town of Ugledar refused to start work for the same reasons  delay in paying wages.'
" After a meeting with the mine's director, who promised to pay the arrears, the miners on the third shift returned to work."
' On 27 June, all miners on the fourth shift at the "Karbomid" and "Pervomaysk" mines in Pervomaysk, Lugansk oblast, refused to start work (142 and 157 miners respectively).'
" In the opinion of the mine's representatives, who wished not to be identified, the strike has a clear political hue  to attempt to compromise the existing authorities and, particularly, President Leonid Kravchuk before the second round of presidential elections."
' According to some reports, among the leaders of the striking pits there are members of the Kuchma-Hrynyov Interregional Bloc of Reforms.'
" As Kostyantyn Fesenko, chairman of the coal industry workers trade union, informed a UNIAN correspondent, Viktor Yushchenko, the chairman of the National Bank of Ukraine, in a telephone conversation on 29 June, gave assurances that the money for the miners' wages as well as subsidies for the following month would be found and forwarded in the next few days ."
' FT923-12122'
' _AN-CGUANACNFT'
' 920721'
" FT 21 JUL 92 / Commodities and Agriculture: Poland's copper combine hit by strike"
' By CHRISTOPHER BOBINSKI'
' WARSAW'
" WORKERS AT KGHM, Poland's copper producing combine went on strike yesterday as coal mining unions staged token stoppages in a third of the country's pits in a major challenge to the government's economic policies."
' The strike at KGHM in Lubin, western Poland, where mining unions representing some 40,0000 workers have been demanding a 30 per cent wage increase, came despite a management offer at the weekend to increase wages by 20 per cent.'
' Further increases could only come if the government eased prohibitive wage control taxes, thus providing a powerful precedent for wage demands by other groups.'
" Meanwhile coal mining unions are also demanding wage increases as well as a clear restructuring strategy for their industry after last week's scattered stoppages in some 15 of Poland's 71 pits wrung promises of wage rises that cash strapped managements can ill afford."
' In contrast to the copper industry, which continues to show a profit, coal mining is running at a loss with subsidies stopped in March as the government moved to control the budget deficit.'
" The industry is experiencing a coal glut with pit head, power station and export stocks amounting to some 12m tonnes, the equivalent of a month's output."
" This has led to temporary lay-offs, which have hit miners' incomes and led to the present bout of unrest."
' Polish mines produced 69.7m tonnes of coal in the first half of the year or 1.5 per cent less than in the same period last year.'
' Meanwhile KGHM produced 197,000 tonnes of refined copper in the same period or 3.9 per cent more than in the first half of 1991 .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page 24'
' FT933-9536'
' _AN-DHJCNAFWFT'
' 930809'
' FT 09 AUG 93 / Romanian coal miners flex their muscles'
' By VIRGINIA MARSH'
' BUCHAREST'
" COALMINERS from Romania's Jiu Valley, who spearheaded violent anti-reform rampages through Bucharest in 1990 and 1991, are once again out on strike, pressing the government for higher wages."
' But so far the government, unlike its predecessors, has not caved in.'
' It has instead begun legal action to have the strike, which today entered its second week, declared illegal.'
" The miners' position seems untenable."
" Romanians appear solidly opposed to the strike, angered by the miners' demands for an average wage of the equivalent of Dollars 290 a month."
' Most workers earn less than Dollars 80.'
' Workers in the same trade union confederation as the miners have ignored appeals by their leaders to strike in solidarity.'
" The Ministry of Industry argues that the 6m tonnes of pit coal produced each year in the Jiu Valley's 13 mines is not a vital source of energy."
" The region's coal supplies two nearby power stations but these plants, which together account for only 4 per cent of the country's electricity capacity, could also be run using lignite and gas."
' The ministry further argues that the miners are in danger of pricing their coal out of the market.'
" According to the ministry, if the miners' pay demands were met, the cost of their coal would double."
' Even at present prices, Ukrainian coal is being imported to the Romanian market.'
' The strike seems motivated by a number of factors.'
' The rank and file have come out because they want more money to compensate for the difficult conditions in which they live and work.'
' They are also following the call of their charismatic leader, Mr Miron Cosma, the man who led them on protests to Bucharest and secured their earlier wage increases.'
" Mr Cosma's motive for calling the strike - for which, surprisingly, he has the support of RAH, the state-owned coal mining company - are less obvious."
' The ministries of industry and finance are conducting investigations into charges of fraud and embezzlement by Mr Cosma and several senior RAH company officials.'
" The company's chief accountant and budget director have already been fired, following earlier investigations."
' Ministry of Industry officials argue the strike could be an attempt to divert attention from the investigations.'
' Mr Cosma, however, appears confident.'
' One of his bargaining tools is the threat, albeit veiled, of fresh violence.'
" In response to the question as to whether he intends to lead his men, who appear to support him whole-heartedly, to Bucharest again, he says: 'With miners, anything is possible'."
' But he is also making political threats.'
' In recent months, Mr Cosma has claimed he has evidence that senior government officials, including President Ion Iliescu, called miners to Bucharest as part of plans to consolidate their own power.'
' Mr Cosma appears increasingly willing to talk if his demands are not met.'
' It remains to be seen whether those involved in the incidents of 1990 and 1991 now feel confident enough to ignore him .'
' Countries:-'
' ROZ Romania, East Europe .'
' Industries:-'
' P1222 Bituminous Coal-Underground.'
' P1221 Bituminous Coal and Lignite-Surface.'
' P8631 Labor Organizations .'
' Types:-'
' PEOP Labour .'
' The Financial Times'
' International Page 3'
' SJMN91-06069108'
' 06069108'
' USSR; LABOR; STRIKE'
' A one-day strike by coal miners in Kazakhstan and the Ukraine has grown into a nationwide walkout involving up to 100,000 miners demanding President Mikhail Gorbachev surrender power to the restive republics, a union leader said Friday.'
' "The government doesn\'t want to negotiate with us.'
' They understand that we\'re not like the phony unions they had before," said Pavel Shushpanov, chairman of the executive committee of the 5-month-old Independent Union of Miners .'
' Front'
' SOVIET STRIKE SPREADS; MINERS STEP UP DEMANDS'
" Most of the country's 1.2 million coal miners are still working, but output in some key regions has been halved, saddling Gorbachev with a substantial labor and fuel problem even as he struggles to revive the Soviet economy."
" The strike is the new union's first major test of strength."
" It began March 1 as a warning action in the Karaganda coal field of Kazakhstan and the Krasnoarmeisk area of the Ukraine but gradually spread to all of the country's major coal regions."
' The strikers are seeking wage increases of at least 100 percent, better working conditions and earlier retirement.'
" They claim the government has not kept promises it made to raise miners' living standards as settlement of a nationwide coal strike in July 1989."
' The 1989 strike, which involved more than 500,000 miners, made only economic demands.'
' This time, Shushpanov said, the miners also want three major political concessions.'
' First, he said, they want "real sovereignty" for the 15 Soviet republics.'
" They are unhappy with Gorbachev's proposed Union Treaty, which would leave the central government in control of the economy, defense, foreign policy and communications, he said."
" Second, the union is demanding more power for Gorbachev's Federation Council, which includes the presidents of all the republics."
' Finally, the union wants a "law on property" that would define what belongs to the government and allow private ownership of land and industry, including some mines, he said.'
' According to the state news agency Tass, the strike has spread to the Donetsk coal basin of the Ukraine, the Vorkuta and Inta regions of northern Russia, and the Kuznetsk coal basin of western Siberia .'
' Associated Press'
' USA'
' Moscow'
' Morning Final'
' SJ'
' San Jose Mercury News'
' 910309'
' Saturday'
' March'
' 16A'
' 1991'
' WEST'
' CA'
' 345'
' Saturday March 9, 1991 00069108,SJ1'
' Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News'
' 1'
' ENG'
' WSJ870804-0095'
' Black Miners In South Africa Set Strike Date - Gold and Coal Workers Seek Better Pay and Benefits; Firms Build Stockpiles - A Wall Street Journal News Roundup'
' 08/04/87'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)'
' AFRIC ANGLY LABOR PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS) COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD) MINING, METALS (NON-PRECIOUS) (MIN)'
' The National Union of Mineworkers said an estimated 200,000 black gold and coal miners in South Africa will begin a strike Sunday night for higher wages and better working conditions, in what it said would be the largest job action ever to affect the mining industry in that nation.'
" The strike initially would cover more than half of South Africa's gold mines and about one-fifth of its coal mines, said Cyril Ramaphosa, the union's general secretary."
' If workers in mines not included in current negotiations join in sympathy strikes, a total of 300,000 miners could be on strike, he said.'
" Gold and coal account for more than half of South Africa's foreign-currency earnings."
" The union's announcement produced little immediate reaction on South African financial markets, where analysts said a strike had been expected and probably wouldn't have much impact unless it lasted more than a month."
' Mine owners reportedly have been building stockpiles for several weeks in anticipation of a strike.'
" Mining companies' shares rose along with the price of gold, but the metal's rise came mainly in reaction to increased tensions in the Persian Gulf."
' The South African rand was slightly firmer.'
' Mr. Ramaphosa said the union is demanding a 30%, across-the-board wage increase for black miners, who the union says earn an average of 225 rand ($109) a month.'
" The Chamber of Mines, which represents the nation's six biggest mining houses, says black miners earn about twice that much."
' It implemented wage increases ranging from 15% to 23.4% last month.'
" Anglo American Corp., the huge South African mining house, warned against a strike, saying miners had received a good wage increase in July and wouldn't gain further raises by a job action."
' But "at this stage it seems the strike seems inevitable," said Mr. Ramaphosa, who added that there hadn\'t been any negotiations with management since a strike ballot received "overwhelming support" during the week of July 12.'
' He also warned of possible confrontations with police, saying: "We have issued instructions to our members that if they are attacked they should defend themselves".'
" Miners' strikes in recent years have featured clashes with police, leaving dozens of people dead."
' "The total mines that will be affected are 28 gold mines around the country and 18 collieries," the union official said.'
' "Our union is at the same time in dispute with a number of other companies, where strike action could take place at any time, should the various mine managements refuse to accede to our members\' demands".'
" He said such other companies included De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the world's largest diamond miner."
' In addition to the general wage increase, Mr. Ramaphosa said the union is demanding pay for black miners doing dangerous work.'
" The black miners also are asking for 30 days' leave each year, and a paid holiday on June 16, the anniversary of the 1976 Soweto riots."
' They also want an increase in death benefits to five years from two .'
