' AP880512-0096'
' AP-NR-05-12-88 1042EDT'
' r i PM-Soviet-Sakharov 05-12 0416'
' PM-Soviet-Sakharov,0427'
' Moscow News Paints Sympathetic Portrait of the Sakharovs at Home'
' MOSCOW (AP)'
' A Soviet newspaper has painted a highly sympathetic portrait of Andrei D. Sakharov and Yelena Bonner, countering past attacks on the dissident couple once branded as traitors by the state-run media.'
' But the account in Moscow News only indirectly mentioned the nearly seven years Sakharov spent in forced internal exile for criticizing the Soviet drive into Afghanistan, indicating that topic is still too sensitive.'
" In its latest issue, the weekly devoted its entire back page to describing the home life of Sakharov, 66, the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner, and said the words most often heard in his seventh-floor Moscow apartment are "help me"."
" Sakharov's apartment on a major thoroughfare has been a mecca for Soviets seeking his aid since he and his wife were allowed to return from exile in the closed city of Gorky in December 1986."
" Since then, Sakharov, who was one of the creators of his nation's hydrogen bomb, has vocally supported Soviet leader Mikhail S."
" Gorbachev's reform campaign, but has called for the liberation of all political prisoners and more improvements in the field of human rights."
" Past Soviet reports, published before Gorbachev became Soviet leader, accused Bonner of marrying Sakharov for his money and said the couple lived in "oriental luxury" amid "scandals between spouses"."
' Moscow News depicted the couple as living peacefully and frugally, eating cabbage, beet soup, potatoes, and other simple fare, and marveled that Sakharov, a member of the prestigious Academy of Sciences, always does the dishes himself.'
' While Sakharov was in exile in the closed city of Gorky, the author of a book that accused him of leading a luxurious and scandal-ridden existence came to ask for an interview, Moscow News said.'
" "Sakharov put a copy of his book in front of him and proposed that he write an apology for all the lies that were published,'' the paper said."
" It reported that when the unidentified author refused, Sakharov said, "It's too bad that duels are abolished in our times,'' and slapped him."
' Sakharov has been quoted numerous times by Soviet media since his return from exile, but the article in Moscow News was the longest devoted to him so far.'
" But most of the newspaper's circulation is among foreign tourists and readers abroad, so relatively few Soviets would see the Sakharov article."
' As well as appearing in Russian, Moscow News also prints editions in English, French and other languages .'
' AP880512-0157'
' AP-NR-05-12-88 1537EDT'
' u i AM-Soviet-Sakharov Bjt 05-12 0621'
' AM-Soviet-Sakharov, Bjt,0643'
' Weekly Prints Sympathetic Portrait of Sakharov, His Wife'
' By JOHN-THOR DAHLBURG'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MOSCOW (AP)'
' Soviet media once branded Andrei D. Sakharov a traitor, but a Moscow weekly has now provided a sympathetic portrait of the human rights activist and his wife.'
" This week's issue of the newspaper Moscow News said that Sakharov long ago understood the need for change in the Soviet Union."
' The article makes a clear attempt to refute some of the past charges leveled at Sakharov and his wife, fellow dissident Yelena Bonner, by Soviet officials and the state-controlled media.'
' Moscow News also pointedly notes that the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner has praised Mikhail S.'
" Gorbachev's campaign for social and economic reform."
' The 66-year-old Sakharov and his wife lead a frugal existence in their seventh-floor Moscow apartment, eating cabbage, beet soup, potatoes and other simple fare, and Sakharov insists on washing the dishes afterward himself, the paper said.'
" It said their two-room home was always filled with people seeking Sakharov's aid, and that the words most often heard there are: "Help me"."
" But Moscow News asked: "Can he really do everything''?"
" Although the full-page article was the longest on Sakharov to date in the Soviet press, it made only indirect reference to the nearly seven years he spent in exile after criticizing the Kremlin's intervention in Afghanistan."
' Sakharov, a brilliant physicist, was allowed to return to Moscow in December 1986 from his forced residence in the closed city of Gorky, where he was banished without trial in January 1980.'
" "In effect, sometimes Sakharov bitterly jokes that he'd like to return to Gorky for a few months to be able to work alone on scientific work,'' Moscow News said."
" "Of course, concerning Gorky, that's a bitter joke''."
" Since his return to Moscow, Sakharov has been a vocal supporter of Gorbachev's program for nationwide reforms that includes the policy of ``glasnost,'' or greater openness on selected topics."
" "He simply believes that something helped change the thoughts of the majority into state policy,'' Moscow News said. "He calls perestroika (restructuring) an enormous event for our country and for the entire world''."
' However, Sakharov has insisted on speedier progress in improving the Soviet record on human rights, and during a Jan. 15 meeting in the Kremlin, he handed Gorbachev a list of 200 people he said were imprisoned for their views.'
" Moscow News noted that in 1975, in a tract titled ``Knowledge and the World,'' Sakharov set forth his views on Soviet affairs."
' Those writings have not been published in the Soviet Union.'
" ``Now we can definitely see parallels between what he said then, and those ideas that we are putting forward today,'' Moscow News said."
' Sakharov called for a ban on nuclear testing long before the Kremlin.'
" The human rights activist, one of the most prominent members of the dissident movement that reached its peak in the 1970s, sought openness in Soviet society years before ``glasnost'' became Communist Party policy."
' Much of the Moscow News article seemed designed to undo harm caused to the Sakharovs by previous press campaigns against them.'
" It said one Soviet book accused the Sakharovs of living in ``oriental luxury'' and engaging in ``scandals between spouses''."
" Moscow News said Sakharov was stubborn, unassuming, an undisputed member of his country's intelligentsia and a man with his own views on how to deal conscientiously with world affairs and the demands of this life."
' His strong convictions even extend to his insistence that he do the dishes after meals, wrote the reporter who visited Sakharov at his apartment.'
" ``What is that, Andrei Dmitrievich, your hobby''? asked Moscow News correspondent Gennady Zhavoronkov."
" ``Not all guests are able to wash the dishes conscientiously,'' Sakharov replied ."
' AP881109-0161'
' AP-NR-11-09-88 1240EST'
' r i AM-Sakharov-Soviet 11-09 0309'
' AM-Sakharov-Soviet,0318'
" Sakharov's Trip Largely Ignored by Soviet Media"
' MOSCOW (AP)'
' The visit by human rights activist Andrei D. Sakharov to the United States has gone virtually unreported by state media, with a radio broadcast saying only he had voiced opposition to the U.S.'
" ``Star Wars'' program."
" That report from Radio Moscow, carried on its international-service news programs Tuesday, apparently was the only mention made by Soviet media of Sakharov's visit to the United States, which began Sunday."
" Radio Moscow said Sakharov made the comments about the Reagan administration's space-based anti-missile program at a Boston news conference."
' Sakharov, winner of the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize, is scheduled to spend two weeks visiting relatives in the United States, undergoing medical tests and promoting a new international organization he belongs to.'
" A celebrity in the West since he helped form the Soviet dissident movement of the 1970s, Sakharov spent nearly seven years in internal exile after criticizing the Kremlin's military drive into Afghanistan."
' President Mikhail S. Gorbachev allowed him to return to Moscow in December 1986.'
" Some statements and articles by Sakharov have been printed in the Soviet media since then, including an article last week in a magazine that opposed some elements of Gorbachev's blueprint for political and electoral reforms."
' Other activities by Sakharov have gone unreported here, including his delivery to Gorbachev of a list of 200 Soviets reportedly held in prison, labor camp or psychiatric hopsitals because of their political views.'
' The official Tass news agency reported Wednesday that the organization Sakharov belongs to _ the International Foundation for the Survival and Development of Humanity _ held its first session in Boston the previous day.'
' Tass made no mention of Sakharov in its three-paragragh report, but said the Soviet delegation to the meeting was headed by Yevgeny Velikhov, vice president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences .'
' AP881110-0227'
' AP-NR-11-10-88 2329EST'
' r a AM-Sakharov 11-10 0254'
' AM-Sakharov,0260'
' Sakharov Receives Human Rights Award'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
' Andrei D. Sakharov, the father of the Soviet dissident movement, finally received a 1973 human rights award Thursday night during his first trip to New York City.'
' Sakharov received the Human Rights Award from the International League for Human Rights at a reception at the home of Ronald Lauder, the former U.S. ambassador to Austria.'
' The 67-year-old Nobel Peace Prize winner is on his first trip to the West, less than two years after Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev freed him from internal exile in the city of Gorky.'
' The human rights activist was banished in 1980 to the closed city for opposing the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.'
" About 200 guests, including author Elie Wiesel, Brooklyn District Attorney Elizabeth Holtzman, designer Caroline Roehm and ABC television's Barbara Walters, attended the reception."
' The ceremony was closed to the media.'
' Sakharov, wearing a blue beret and plaid scarf, made no statement as he left the reception and entered a waiting limousine.'
' Sakharov is the honorary president of the league, which has its headquarters in the United States and more than 40 affiliate groups around the world, including the Moscow Human Rights Committee, which Sakharov and his colleagues founded in 1971.'
' Sakharov arrived in the United States on Sunday to visit relatives and receive medical treatment before going to Washington for a White House visit and a board meeting of the International Foundation for the Survival and Development of Humanity, of which he is a director .'
' AP890320-0158'
' AP-NR-03-20-89 1706EST'
' u i AM-Sakharov 1stLd-Writethru a0592 03-20 0452'
' AM-Sakharov, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0592,0463'
' Sakharov Challenges Science Academy Legislative Slate'
' Eds: LEADS throughout to UPDATE with Sakarov speech, details.'
' No pickup .'
' MOSCOW (AP)'
" Andrei D. Sakharov urged members of the Academy of Sciences on Monday to reject the leadership's list of candidates for the new Soviet legislature, which does not include the Nobel Peace Prize winner."
" The 67-year-old nuclear physicist and human rights activist, who won the Nobel in 1975, said in a speech to the academy that many scientists objected to the slate for Sunday's election approved by the leadership in January."
' Sakharov and several other well-known proponents of reform are missing from the list.'
" The official news agency Tass quoted him as saying, however, that scientists were upset ``not because Sakharov was not nominated, but because the role of scientific institutions was ignored''."
' He called for reversal of what he called the anti-democratic decision, which produced a list of what critics describe as old-guard managers of scientific institutions.'
' A vote on the academy candidates is scheduled for Tuesday.'
" Sakharov was nominated from several geographic districts for a seat in the new 2,250-member Congress of People's Deputies, but he decided to refuse the nominations and fight for an Academy of Sciences seat."
' Under an election law approved in December, 750 seats in the legislature are reserved for the Communist Party and its affiliates and for professional, social and trade union organizations.'
' The other 1,500 will be filled by representatives of the 15 Soviet republics and their electoral districts.'
' Those in the academy who support Sakharov hope to force a new round of nominations by mustering enough support to deny all nominees a majority, said Andrei Mironov, a former political prisoner.'
' That would force the academy to start over and produce a new list of nominees under terms of the new election law.'
' Twenty-five seats were allotted to the academy, but it gave five to affiliated societies and associations.'
' From 121 nominees, the academy leadership chose 23 candidates for the remaining 20 seats.'
' Although 60 research institutes nominated Sakharov, he was not chosen for the final slate.'
" The leadership's decision inspired widespread press criticism and a demonstration at the academy's Moscow headquarters."
' Tass said 1,108 academicians, corresponding members and representatives of reseach institutes attended the three-day meeting that began Monday.'
" ``The first three days of this week may become the `hottest' spring days for Soviet scientists,'' it said, alluding to the leadership's rejection of such reformers as Sakharov, space scientist Roald Sagdeev and sociologist Tatyana Zaslavsakaya."
" The agency acknowledged ``many scientists were unsatisfied'' with the slate of candidates."
' Mironov said two other academicians also spoke on Monday in favor of new nominations.'
' No details of their remarks were available .'
' AP891216-0037'
' AP-NR-12-16-89 0526EST'
' u i PM-Sakharov 12-16 0602'
' PM-Sakharov,0622'
" Kremlin Eulogizes Onetime Foe as `Man of Honesty and Sincerity'"
' By MARK J. PORUBCANSKY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MOSCOW (AP)'
" In what amounted to a public apology, Mikhail S. Gorbachev and Soviet leaders today eulogized Andrei D. Sakharov as a ``man of honesty and sincerity'' who suffered great injustice at the hands of previous rulers."
' An obituary signed by Gorbachev, five other members of the ruling Communist Party Politburo and 50 other leading officials and scholars was printed along with a picture of Sakharov on page 4 of the party daily Pravda.'
' Such obituaries are reserved for favored public figures and scientists, and Pravda emphasized the importance of the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner by printing a decree about the formation of a funeral commission in a black box on its front page.'
" Sakharov, 68, died Thursday night in his study, just hours after urging fellow members of the Congress of People's Deputies to create a formal opposition to the party in their drive to break its seven-decade strangehold on political power."
" ``A distinguished scientist and public figure, a man of honesty and sincerity has passed away,'' the obituary said."
" ``Everything that Andrei Dmitrievich did was dictated by his conscience, his deep humanitarian convictions''."
' The obituary noted Sakharov was exiled in the industrial city of Gorky about 250 miles east of Moscow from 1980 to 1986.'
" ``Gross injustices were permitted in relation to A.D. Sakharov,'' it said."
' It was signed by Gorbachev and fellow Politburo members Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, Vadim A. Medvedev, Lev N. Zaikov, Alexander N. Yakovlev and Vitaly I. Vorotnikov.'
' However, the signatures of several other Politburo members, including KGB chief Vladimir A. Kryuchkov and leading conservative Yegor K. Ligachev were missing.'
' Absence of their signatures could signify that the disagreed with part of the obituary.'
' Ligachev, interviewed by the Tass news agency on Friday, had said he disagreed with Sakharov but respected him.'
' It was Leonid I. Brezhnev, now blamed by Gorbachev for permitting stagnation and corruption to overcome the Soviet system, who exiled Sakharov for criticizing the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan.'
' Gorbachev called Sakharov in Gorky in December 1986 and told him he could return to Moscow.'
" The Soviet leader told reporters at the Congress of People's Deputies that Sakharov's death was a ``great loss''."
' Even though the two often tangled at the Congress, Gorbachev said he respected Sakharov.'
" "He was not some sort of political intriguer,'' the Soviet president said Friday."
" Gorbachev said he would attend Sakharov's funeral Monday afternoon in southwest Moscow's Vostryakovskoye Cemetery."
" Several hundred people gathered outside Sakharov's apartment building Friday evening, holding candles and wreathing his photograph in flowers."
" Memorial services were scheduled Sunday at the city's main youth center, and on Monday at the Lebedev physics institute where Sakharov worked and the Academy of Sciences, of which he was a leading member."
" The popular nighttime TV program ``Vzglad'' showed a brief interview with his widow, Yelena Bonner, discussing the funeral arrangements."
" The obituary also praised Sakharov's vision as a scientist, which made him the youngest-ever member of the Academy of Sciences at age 32 and led to his inclusion in a group that developed the Soviet hydrogen bomb."
' But it said that Sakharov realized the danger of the weapon he had helped create.'
" ``Working on the creation of weapons of mass destruction, A.D. Sakharov understood early the danger for humanity of their wide production and testing, and stubbornly placed before the government the question of limiting such tests,'' it said."
" ``But at that time his appeals were not accepted,'' it said."
" "He kept these same positions in the future.''"
' AP891217-0053'
' AP-NR-12-17-89 1801EST'
' u i AM-Sakharov 3rdLd-Writethru a0748 12-17 1088'
' AM-Sakharov, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0748,1116'
' Outpouring of Grief For Sakharov'
' Eds: LEADS with 3 grafs UPDATING estimate of people viewing body.'
' Picks up 4th graf, "My God! .. .'
' By ANDREW KATELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MOSCOW (AP)'
" Mourners sobbed and shook their heads in disbelief Sunday as tens of thousands viewed the flower-draped body of Andrei D. Sakharov in a huge outpouring of grief for the man described as his country's conscience."
' Crimean Tatars and Jewish refuseniks _ two of the groups Sakharov helped _ joined rank-and-file Communists, teachers and engineers in filing past the body of the physicist, Nobel Peace Prize winner, human rights advocate and legislator.'
' Based on official sources, an estimated 45,000 people filed through, and the flow of mourners continued into the night.'
" A friend of the family, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he heard estimates that 70,000 mourners viewed the body before it was returned to Sakharov's apartment at midnight."
' "My God!'
" Forgive us''! one elderly woman cried out as she saw Sakharov's body in an open coffin, sloping to the floor of the beige marble Youth Palace in central Moscow."
' She apparently meant to apologize for not recognizing his contributions earlier.'
" A mound of red and white carnations grew steadily at Sakharov's feet, and a spotlight was focused on a portrait showing Sakharov with his hands over his mouth, deep in thought."
' An organ and piano alternated dirges.'
' Sakharov died Thursday alone in his study at the age of 68, apparently of a heart attack, ending a three-decade fight against the jailing of innocent people, for free emigration, for disarmament and other causes.'
' Sunday was the first of two days of memorial ceremonies, and the outpouring was remarkable for a man who was once ostracized and committed to nearly seven years in internal exile in the remote city of Gorky.'
' There were signs of grief throughout this snowy capital of 9 million people, as though a government leader had died.'
' The huge line of mourners, sometimes four deep and heavily bundled against below-zero temperatures, stretched a mile from the palace and poured continuously out of a subway station.'
" So many people wanted to see Sakharov's body lying in state that authorities extended the viewing period by four hours and moved the coffin so two rows of mourners could file past."
' Roald Z. Sagdeyev, a member of the official funeral commission, said about 3,000 people an hour were arriving initially, but the official news agency Tass said that rate doubled later, making for a total of 45,000 by nighttime.'
' Police lined the sidewalks where people waited.'
" Sakharov's widow Yelena Bonner, pleased authorities were not turning people away, praised them for being "very democratic"."
" In her first detailed public comments on her husband's death, Bonner said she hopes he will not be idolized."
" "I would not wish a living person _ he has lived an animated, happy life _ to be turned into an icon, an icon which could be used by various forces in their interests,'' Bonner said in an interview broadcast on Soviet TV."
" She said, however, that she hopes Sakharov's writings, published abroad long ago, will become widely available in his homeland so there can be a conversation of "the people of the future with Andrei Dmitrievich''."
' Mourners carried small portraits of Sakharov and red and white carnations to place near his coffin.'
' One man, Sergei Kosykh, brought his 7-year-old daughter along.'
" "My daughter, who is being brought up with the belief that there is nobody greater than (Soviet founder Vladimir) Lenin, I have brought her here today just to show her the person greater than Lenin,'' he said."
" A middle-aged woman drew from Russian literature to reflect on Sakharov's contributions."
" "He was like the man from one of Maxim Gorky's tales who used his own bleeding and living heart as a torch to lead people to light and truth,'' said the woman, a teacher who declined to give her name."
" "Sakharov always was telling the truth and by doing so forced our leadership to do the same,'' said Boris Sorokin, a 50-year-old designer."
" Unofficial shrines sprouted outside Sakharov's southeast Moscow apartment, where candles flickered alongside his portrait."
' Outside the offices of the weekly newspaper Moscow News on Pushkin Square, a popular gathering place for political activists, portraits and flowers were displayed.'
" An entry in a notebook for mourners' comments outside Sakharov's apartment building declared, "The conscience of the nation has died"."
" Moscow News _ an organ of the official press, which had branded Sakharov an "utterly ignorant person'' _ took the rare step Sunday of publishing a special edition devoted to the activist."
" Four pages were filled with pictures of him, condolence telegrams from exiled writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn and President Bush and a text of Sakharov's last public remarks, a speech he delivered hours before his death in which he said the Soviet hierarchy was ``leading the country to a catastrophe''."
" On Sunday night, Soviet TV's newscast ``Seven Days'' also paid tribute to Sakharov, leading the program with a 10-minute report on him."
" The Communist Party daily Pravda published a poem by Yevgeny Yevtushenko that read in part: ``History's most peaceful rebel, in dying, did not come down from the cross, but left a horrifying hole in the moral fabric of the world''."
' On Saturday, Pravda published what amounted to a public apology to Sakharov.'
" President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and other Soviet leaders said in an obituary that Sakharov had been the victim of ``gross injustices'' and praised him as a ``man of honesty and sincerity''."
" Bonner, Sakharov's constant companion and fellow human rights activist, sat closest to the coffin, clutching a black handbag and periodically closing her eyes."
' A son and daughter from his first marriage and son and daughter of Bonner also attended, along with four grandchildren.'
' Gorbachev was expected to pay his last respects Monday, when the funeral is planned, and on Sunday was represented by Yevgeny M.'
" Primakov, chairman of the funeral commission and a non-voting member of the country's ruling Politburo."
" The foreign dignitaries expected to take part in Monday's ceremonies include Lech Walesa, head of Poland's Solidarity movement, who will be making his first trip to the Soviet Union, and former refuseniks Yosef Begun and Vladimir Slepak, who now live in Israel."
" Israel's best known Soviet dissident, Natan Sharansky, was refused a visa when he applied for permission to travel to Moscow, said Sharansky's spokesman, Avraham Ben-Yaakov."
" Begun and Slepak said they would lay a wreath on Sakharov's grave in Sharansky's name ."
' LA012189-0060'
' 8184'
' January 21, 1989, Saturday, Home Edition'
' Part 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk'
' 495 words'
" SOVIET PHYSICISTS SUPPORT SAKHAROV'S PARLIAMENT BID"
' From Times Wire Services'
' MOSCOW'
" In a major rebuff to the Soviet Union's scientific establishment, Soviet physicists Friday nominated Nobel laureate Andrei D. Sakharov to run as a candidate in nationwide parliamentary elections scheduled for March ."
" The overwhelming vote in favor of the 67-year-old human-rights advocate by his colleagues at Moscow's leading physics institute came only two days after his candidacy was rejected by the governing board of the Academy of Sciences."
' The attempt to prevent Sakharov from running for a revamped Soviet Parliament has outraged Soviet intellectuals .'
" During a marathon session that ended late Wednesday, the governing board of the Academy of Sciences selected 23 scientists as candidates to fill 25 specially reserved seats in the new Congress of People's Deputies."
' Sakharov and several other leading reformers, including the former director of the Soviet space institute, Roald Sagdeyev, failed to win nomination .'
' Sakharov Supported'
" During secret balloting Friday at the prestigious Lebedev Institute, the physicists supported Sakharov's candidacy by a vote of 1,543 to 22."
' The outcome was more an expression of respect for Sakharov as a man who stuck by his principles during difficult times than a specific endorsement of all his political views .'
' Sakharov, however, used the occasion to outline his hopes for a multiparty system, public control over the KGB security police, and the convergence of communism and capitalism .'
' Although Sakharov has publicly expressed his support for President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, in recent months he seems to have become increasingly concerned about the slow and uneven pace of reform.'
' In a question-and-answer session with physicists, he described the political situation in the Soviet Union as "extremely complicated" .'
" 'Far From Delighted'"
' "I am far from being delighted about all the things that have happened in our country over the last year.'
' In many ways, our domestic policies have either been indecisive or incorrect," he said .'
' Sakharov, who acted as an unofficial Kremlin envoy to the troubled Transcaucasian region last month, said he was particularly dismayed by a government crackdown against leading Armenian nationalists.'
' He called for the release from prison of members of the outlawed Karabakh Committee, which has been campaigning for the secession of the largely Armenian-inhabited region of Nagorno-Karabakh from Azerbaijan .'
' The 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner outlined a detailed political program which, if implemented, would totally transform the Soviet Union.'
' He called for total freedom of movement and association .'
' Although Sakharov has now been nominated as a candidate from the October electoral district of Moscow, it is by no means certain that his name will appear on the March 26 ballot.'
' Under the complicated voting procedures, it is still possible to strike down his candidacy during the so-called "pre-electoral campaign" if more than two candidates have been nominated .'
' Wire'
' SAKHAROV, ANDREI D; USSR  ELECTIONS; USSR  GOVERNMENT; GOVERNMENT REFORM; POLITICAL CANDIDATES; PHYSICISTS'
' LA051589-0055'
' 57243'
' May 15, 1989, Monday, Home Edition'
' Part 1; Page 6; Column 2; Foreign Desk'
' 282 words'
' SOVIET UNION NEAR ECONOMIC CATASTROPHE, SAKHAROV WARNS'
' From Reuters'
' MILAN, Italy'
' Soviet human rights activist Andrei D. Sakharov said Sunday that his country is on the brink of economic catastrophe because reforms of the old centralized system are too slow in arriving .'
' While praising the new course in world affairs taken by the Soviet Union, as demonstrated by its withdrawal from Afghanistan, Sakharov told the congress of the Italian Socialist Party that some aspects of internal affairs are "deeply disturbing" .'
' "We all know about the serious economic situation which can only get worse.'
' The budget deficit has reached astronomical proportions of more than 100 billion rubles ($160 billion).'
" Economic reforms are proceeding slower and slower and people are losing interest in them because they can't buy anything ."
' "The old centralized system is being dismantled, and that is right.'
' But the trouble is that it is not being replaced by anything new.'
' We can say that the country is on the brink of an economic catastrophe" .'
' Sakharov, who did not mention the name of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, described as "anti-democratic" some measures taken to quell nationalist unrest, particularly the toxic gas believed to have been used against demonstrators in Soviet Georgia earlier this year .'
' The physicist also attacked new legislation on personal responsibility now under consideration in Moscow.'
' He said the laws could restrict freedom of speech .'
' Speaking in Russian without notes, he said the new laws were supposed to take the place of measures used against dissidents like himself in the 1970s and 1980s .'
" Sakharov was elected in April to the new Soviet Congress of People's Deputies, just two years after he was released from seven years of internal exile ."
' Wire'
' SAKHAROV, ANDREI D; USSR  ECONOMY; ECONOMIC FORECASTS; GOVERNMENT REFORM; USSR  LAWS'
' LA121589-0192'
' 149194'
' December 15, 1989, Friday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 2; Column 3; Late Final Desk'
' 445 words'
' SAKHAROV PRAISED AS CHAMPION OF FREEDOM'
' From Times Wire Services'
' World leaders from President Bush to President Mikhail S. Gorbachev today praised Andrei D. Sakharov as a tremendous force for freedom who outlived his Soviet persecutors and saw the liberty he championed take root throughout Eastern Europe .'
' The 68-year-old scientist and human rights activist died Thursday of an apparent heart attack in his Moscow apartment .'
' The Soviet Congress stood for a minute of silence for their colleague, once considered a national hero for discovering the Soviet hydrogen bomb but later reviled by Kremlin leadership for his uncompromising stands for human freedom .'
' Gorbachev, who freed the physicist from seven years of internal exile, called Sakharov a "man of conviction and sincerity" .'
' "It\'s a great loss," Gorbachev said.'
' "He was a person who had his own ideas, his own convictions which he expressed openly and directly.'
' This doesn\'t mean I agreed with him, although on many things we did agree" .'
' One Soviet lawmaker called Sakharov a man "such as maybe appears once in a hundred years" .'
' Bush said that "all of us are diminished" and that Sakharov "embodied all of what is good and decent in the human spirit" .'
' Bush, in a message of condolence to Sakharov\'s widow, Yelena Bonner, said: "All of us who knew him will never forget his courage and devotion to freedom.'
' . . . Just as he truly enriched all of us with his life, all of us are diminished by his untimely death" .'
' Aase Lionaes, chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee that awarded Sakharov the Peace Prize in 1975, said he "fell in the struggle for democratic reforms.'
' His death represents a great loss, especially at a time with hopes of a positive development in the Soviet Union and in all Eastern Europe" .'
' Political leaders worldwide commended Sakharov as a man whose causes went beyond ideology .'
' Lech Walesa, a fellow Nobel Peace Prize laureate, said Sakharov\'s death was "a great loss for reform both in the Soviet Union and everywhere else" .'
' "He was just a remarkable person," said British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.'
' "He was one of those who would always say the truth must be found and was never afraid of stating that and letting everyone know" .'
' "It is just sad he will not be preeminent in the freer future of the Soviet Union," she told reporters in London .'
' In Strasbourg, France, the 518-member European Parliament unanimously paid tribute to Sakharov, whose name it had given to its Human Rights Prize .'
' In Brussels, the NATO foreign ministers hailed Sakharov as a pioneer who helped change Soviet society.'
' NATO Secretary General Manfred Woerner said, "The ministers expressed deeply felt sense of loss at the passing of Andrei Sakharov" .'
' Photo, Mourning for Sakharov Muscovites gather outside the home of Andrei D. Sakharov to pay tribute to him.'
' The 68-year-old 1975 Nobel Peace Prize recipient and human rights activist died on Thursday. Tass'
' Wire'
