' AP890420-0176'
' AP-NR-04-20-89 1934EST'
" u w AM-Battleship-Explosion 4th-writethru a0747getTurkeyFranks''."
' 04-20 1148'
' AM-Battleship-Explosion, 4th-writethru, a0747,1170'
' Eds: To update with Bush attending service, adds new graf after 4th previous, The Iowa'
' By BRYAN BRUMLEY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
" The bodies of 47 sailors killed in the gun explosion on the Iowa arrived in the United States on Thursday as the Navy tried to figure out what caused the battleship's turret to blow up."
' None of the guns in the no. 2 turret had been fired before the explosion instantly killed the seamen, Navy officials said.'
" They discarded a theory that the blast had been sparked by red-hot debris left in the gun's breech by earlier rounds."
' The Navy organized a board of inquiry and placed a moratorium on firing 16-inch guns, found only on the Iowa and its three sister battleships, the New Jersey, the Wisconsin and the Missouri.'
" The Iowa was headed back to its home port at Norfolk, Va., while the bodies of the dead were flown to the military mortuary at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware and families of the battleship's 1,600 crewmen waited to learn whether their relatives were among the dead."
' At the White House, chief of staff John Sununu announced President Bush will attend a memorial service Monday for the victims in Norfolk.'
' He said the president had heard of the service and told his staff ``if it could be fitted in, he wanted to be there ...'
" wants to be a part''."
' The blast occurred Wednesday morning northeast of Puerto Rico as the Iowa took part in firing exercises that were part of naval training.'
" A spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet and the ship's former captain both said the explosion in the No. 2 turret could have been triggered by red-hot debris from earlier firings in the three-gun turret."
" But Cmdr. Mark Baker, chief of the Navy's Pentagon press office, said later that none of the turret's three guns had been fired."
' Only four rounds of 22 scheduled to be fired as part of a training exercise had been fired, he said, and all had been from the No. 1 turret, forward of the one that exploded.'
" No eyewitnesses survived Wednesday's explosion behind one of the 16-inch guns on the Iowa, one of the largest warships ever."
" Pentagon officials declined to speculate publicly about the exact cause of the disaster, the worst to strike a Navy ship since 1977, but two officers _ Capt. Paul Hanley, a fleet spokesman, and Capt. Larry Seaquist, the ship's former captain _ said a possible explanation was that red-hot debris from a previous round ignited new charges."
" But Seaquist stressed, ``We simply do not know what caused that powder to go''."
' Baker said no guns in the No. 2 turret had been fired and the order had just been given to the No. 2 turret crew to load and prepare the center gun when the explosion occurred.'
" ``We have no eyewitnesses to what actually transpired,'' Defense Secretary Dick Cheney told reporters as he headed back to Washington from a NATO meeting in Brussels."
' The Iowa sailed to Roosevelt Roads Navy Base in Puerto Rico to unload the bodies, which were then flown to Delaware.'
' Navy investigators boarded the ship as it left for Norfolk, where it is expected to arrive Sunday or Monday.'
" Navy Secretary William Ball attended a memorial service at the Delaware base, home of the armed services' largest mortuary."
' The flag-draped coffins were carried off a plane by Navy honor guards.'
" Around the United States, Navy officers and chaplains broke the bad news to the dead men's next of kin."
' The job began just before midnight Wednesday, when officials in Norfolk received the list of the dead.'
" ``I've done it many times and I'll never get used to it,'' said Cmdr. Doug Palmer, acting chaplain for the Norfolk Navy Base."
' Five men had families in the Norfolk area.'
" The commander of the U.S. 2nd Fleet, Adm. Jerome Johnson, who was on board the Iowa, told reporters in Puerto Rico, ``The fire and explosion was instantaneous''."
' Cheney indicated the casualties were all in the swiveling gun house at the top of the turret, rather than the mechanical compartments and ammunition magazines below it.'
' Eleven men escaped from powder magazines deep within the ship at the base of the turret.'
' A dozen crew members suffered minor injuries fighting the fire caused by the explosion.'
' They were treated and returned to duty, said Pentagon spokesman Fred Hoffman.'
' At the White House, President Bush brushed aside suggestions that the explosion was due to the age of the Iowa, a World War II leviathan brought out of mothballs during the military buildup of the Reagan administration.'
" Asked about the ship's safety, Bush said he wanted to insure that procedures were checked ``to be sure that safety is at the highest point ..."
" but I wouldn't jump to the conclusion that because that kind of powder was put into these turrets in that way that makes a useful platform obsolete''."
" Adm. Richard D. Milligan, a former commander of the New Jersey, began the board of inquiry's investigation."
' Hoffman said he could not predict when the investigation would be completed.'
" Seaquist told reporters, ``It seems from the reports that those powders exploded''."
' He referred to the six 110-pound sacks of powder rammed into each gun after it is loaded with a 1,900-pound shell.'
" Seaquist said a pressurized air system that clears debris from the breech at a gun's rear must be operated manually."
' Each gun has a one-inch diameter tube carrying air under 3,000 pounds of pressure to blow debris from the 62-foot barrel.'
' The only officer killed was Lt. j.g. Phillip Edward Buch from Las Cruces, N.M., who would normally be in a small compartment at the rear of the swivelling top of the turret, adjacent to the room in which shells are loaded.'
" Naval officers familiar with the Iowa said an explosion can occur if a gun breech is cracked, or from a shell that ``cooks off'' _ ignites prematurely from the heat of the barrel or smoldering debris left in the barrel from the previous round."
" ``The first thing that comes to mind is something like a cook-off,'' said Hanley."
' ``It could have been a bag or a projectile.'
" We just don't know yet''."
' None of the four battleships of the Iowa class, which saw service in World War II and the Korean and Vietnam wars, has ever sustained such an explosion, Pentagon officials said.'
" Wednesday's explosion brought the worst loss of life for the Navy since a 1977 accident off Spain, in which 49 sailors died when a launch returning them to the USS Guam and the USS Trenton was struck by a Spanish freighter."
' Except for two World War II Japanese battleships and the current Navy aircraft carriers, the 58,000-ton ships of the Iowa class are the largest warships in the world .'
' AP890421-0013'
' AP-NR-04-21-89 0056EST'
' r w PM-BattleshipExplosion Bjt 04-21 0714'
' PM-Battleship Explosion, Bjt,700'
' Investigators Search Ship While Families Grieve'
' By DONNA CASSATA'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
' Investigators aboard the USS Iowa searched for clues to the cause of a fiery explosion that claimed the lives of 47 sailors as the damaged battleship headed home and grief-stricken families dealt with the loss of their loved ones.'
" Officials refused to speculate publicly on what caused the worst disaster to strike a Navy ship in more than a decade, a blast that ripped through the Iowa's No. 2 gun turret during naval exercises Wednesday in the Atlantic north of Puerto Rico."
' Although naval gunnery experts combed the vessel Thursday, their task was complicated by the absence of survivors from the swiveling gun housing where the explosion occurred.'
' Eleven men escaped from powder magazines located deep within the ship at the base of the turret.'
" ``We have no eyewitnesses to what actually transpired,'' Defense Secretary Dick Cheney told reporters as he returned to Washington from a NATO meeting in Brussels."
' The Navy imposed a moratorium on firing 16-inch guns found on the Iowa and its three sister battleships, the New Jersey, the Wisconsin and the Missouri, pending an investigation of the disaster.'
" Adm. Richard D. Milligan, a former commander of the New Jersey, began the board of inquiry's investigation, and Pentagon spokesman Fred Hoffman said he could not predict when the investigation would be completed."
' As the Iowa headed toward its home port in Norfolk, Va., the flag-draped, metal coffins containing the bodies of the 47 seamen killed arrived at the Dover Air Force Base in Delaware, site of the largest military mortuary.'
' Navy honor guards carried the coffins off a camouflaged C-5 Galaxy cargo plane.'
' The bodies had been airlifted by helicopter from the Iowa while it was anchored offshore from Roosevelt Roads Naval Station in Puerto Rico, and placed on the cargo plane for the flight home.'
" Across the nation, teams of Navy officers and chaplains broke the news to the sailors' next of kin."
" ``It's the greatest tragedy any of us can suffer,'' said Rear Adm. Jimmy Pappas, the base commander in Norfolk."
" ``It's the most difficult thing you have to do'' to tell someone that a loved one has been killed."
' Ernest Hanyecz Sr., of Bordentown, N.J., stayed up all night trying to get information about his 27-year-old son Ernest before learning Thursday that he was among those killed.'
" ``As long as they play their war games, there will be more deaths and innocent people will die,'' said Hanyecz, whose son joined the Navy at the age of 17."
' The dead included one officer, Lt. j.g. Phillip Edward Buch, 24, of Las Cruces, N.M., and 46 enlisted men.'
' Most victims were single and from 18 to 22 years old, said Navy officials.'
' A memorial service will be held Monday on the Norfolk base.'
" Adm. Jerome Johnson, the commander of the U.S. 2nd Fleet who was aboard the Iowa, said ``the fire and explosion was instantaneous''."
' Navy officials aboard the Iowa had scheduled firing 22 rounds.'
' Four rounds were fired from the No. 1 turret and immediately after the commander had given the order to load and prepare the gun in the No. 2 turret, the explosion occurred.'
" Capt. Larry Seaquist, a former captain of the Iowa, told reporters earlier in the day, ``It seems from the reports that those powders exploded''."
' Six 110-pound sacks of powder are rammed into each gun after it is loaded with a 1,900-pound shell.'
" Naval officers familiar with the Iowa said an explosion can occur if a gun breech is cracked, but Seaquist stressed, ``we simply do not know what caused that powder to go''."
' None of the four battleships of the Iowa class, which saw service in World War II and the Korean and Vietnam wars, had previously experienced such an explosion, Pentagon officials said.'
" Wednesday's explosion brought the worst loss of life for the Navy since a 1977 accident off Spain, in which 49 sailors died when a launch returning them to the USS Guam and the USS Trenton was struck by a Spanish freighter."
' Except for two World War II Japanese battleships and the current Navy aircraft carriers, the 58,000-ton ships of the Iowa class are the largest warships in the world .'
' AP890421-0062'
' AP-NR-04-21-89 0736EST'
' r a PM-Battleship-Critics 1stLd-Writethru a0423 04-21 0736'
' PM-Battleship-Critics, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0423,0750'
" Critics Call Battleship's 16-Inch Guns Outmoded, Dangerous"
" Eds: SUBS lead to CORRECT miles to 23 sted 20; SUBS grafs 18-19, `It supported...', to DELETE reference to Vietnam and add upgrading."
' Also in Friday AMs report .'
' By ROBERT DVORCHAK'
' AP National Writer'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
' The 16-inch guns on the USS Iowa, which can lob a shell the weight of a Volkswagen 23 miles, have an outdated design that is unfit in the nuclear missile age, critics say.'
" ``They're old-fashioned and inherently dangerous."
" They all ought to be eliminated,'' retired Rear Adm. Eugene LaRocque of the Center for Defense Information said Thursday."
" ``I don't know what more it takes to get people to recognize this ancient technology is no longer appropriate on warships''."
' But the Navy defended the 16-inch gun, the mightiest in use on any ocean, after an explosion killed 47 sailors Wednesday aboard the battleship Iowa while a turret crew loaded gunpowder for target practice.'
' ``This gun ...'
' remains the finest naval gun in the world.'
" It was the pinnacle of gun design art, and it is still a front-line system,'' said Capt. Larry Seaquist, commander of the Iowa until last May."
' The main criticism is that the big gun requires gunpowder packed in silk bags to fire 16-inch-diameter shells from its 62-foot-long barrel.'
' It works like the breech-loaded guns that roared during the Civil War: A shell is placed into a barrel and then charged with gunpowder in a separate package.'
" In the Iowa's case, 660 pounds of powder _ six 110-pound bags _ is needed to fire a projectile weighing up to 2,700 pounds at a speed of 2,500 feet per second."
' An electric spark ignites the powder.'
' The extremely flammable silk is supposed to burn away during the burst, but some red-hot debris may remain or explosive gases can build up in the barrel.'
" Air pressurized to 3,000 pounds per square inch can be blown into the breech to clear away debris to guard against a ``blowback,'' which happens when powder ignites before the breech is closed."
' In newer guns, powder is packed in metal containers.'
" Missiles, the backbone of the modern Navy's attack capability, have integrated propellants."
' Capt. James Bush of the Center for Defense Information, a private think tank often critical of Pentagon policy, said the Iowa explosion could have been caused by smoldering debris, a blowback or a mishap in the handling of powder.'
" ``It wasn't unexpected."
" It wasn't a surprise."
' This is dangerous technology.'
" It's archaic,'' Bush said."
" ``These are the only guns in the Navy that still used bagged powder''."
' The Navy said Thursday that none of the guns in the Iowa turret had been fired before the explosion took place.'
' The Navy also on Thursday placed a moratorium on firing the big guns, found only on the Iowa and its three sister battleships, the New Jersey, the Wisconsin and the Missouri.'
' In a larger sense, critics say the battleships themselves, once the mainstay of gunboat diplomacy, have outlived their purpose.'
' Despite 16-inch-thick armor plating, the battlewagons are vulnerable to submarine and missile attack.'
' The 20-mile range of the 16-inch guns is almost worthless in an era when missiles can be fired at much greater distances.'
" ``We can do almost anything with a missile and do it better,'' Bush said."
' Battleships reached their heyday in World War I and were intended to fight other ships.'
' The Iowa, first launched in 1942, was the first of an entire class of U.S. battlewagons built to conquer Japan.'
" It supported Marine amphibious landings and shelled shore targets, but the aircraft carrier emerged as the Navy's top weapon because naval battles were waged without ships ever seeing each other."
' The Iowa also fought off Korea.'
" The Iowa and three sister warships were ordered out of mothballs in the Reagan administration's military buildup six years ago."
' They were upgraded with Tomahawk cruise missiles, 20mm guns and Harpoon missiles.'
' One of the battleships, the New Jersey, bombarded Syrian and Druze positions in Lebanon as part the U.S. peacekeeping role in 1983.'
' But the 16-inch guns often missed their targets, which the Navy blamed on unreliable powder from World War II.'
" ``There was no military need to return these ships to active duty,'' said the CDI's LaRocque."
" ``Their only military utility is to bombard Third World countries, and the era of gunboat diplomacy is over.''"
' AP890421-0186'
' AP-NR-04-21-89 2325EST'
' u a AM-BattleshipStatus 1stLd-Writethru a0741 04-21 0562'
' AM-Battleship Status, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0741,0574'
' Iowa Investigators Review Videotape of Disaster'
' Eds: Leads with 6 grafs to UPDATE with Washington Post reports; picks up 3rd graf: `Meanwhile, NBC .. .'
' LaserPhotos NK2,3'
' NORFOLK, Va. (AP)'
' The damaged battleship USS Iowa steamed home from Puerto Rico on Friday while investigators on board interviewed crewmen and reviewed an amateur videotape of the explosion that killed 47 sailors.'
' Ens. Karl Johnson, an Atlantic Fleet spokesman, said the Navy would not release the exact position of the ship, which was expected to reach its home port here about 5:30 p.m. Sunday.'
' The Washington Post reported in its Saturday editions that crewmen in the upper chambers of the gun turret were killed by the explosion and fire while sailors working several levels below suffocated when the blast sucked all the oxygen out of the spaces.'
' Navy investigators also said the explosion left two fully loaded gun barrels in the turret, the newspaper reported.'
' The explosion came after two of the three guns had been loaded and just after the crew had been given permission to load and fire the center gun, the newspaper said.'
' After the fire was extinguished, crew men worked quickly to remove the shells and powder from the other two guns before they could explode, the newspaper said.'
" Meanwhile, NBC News reported that the exact cause of the blast in one of the ship's three 16-inch gun turrets on Wednesday may never be known because the destruction inside the turret was so complete."
' The Navy released photographs of the firefighting effort, which authorities said required two hours to put out the blaze and cool off the turret before anyone could enter it.'
' During the trip home, investigators on board were reviewing a videotape of the turret taken by an Iowa officer who had wanted to record the firing of the big guns when the explosion occurred, said Lt.'
' Cmdr. James Cudler, a Pentagon spokesman.'
' He said the investigators had not decided whether to release the tape to the public.'
' Investigators were also interviewing crew members.'
' Maj. Tom Johnston, a spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet in Norfolk, said he had no information on the cause of death of the 47 crewmen.Navy officials have refused to speculate on the cause of the explosion.'
' In Norfolk, memorial services for the 47 victims are tentatively set for 9 a.m. Monday.'
' President George Bush is to attend.'
" Johnson said the ship is steaming under its own power, and repeated the Navy's daily report that the ship is seaworthy and in no danger."
' The 887-foot, 58,000-ton battleship has armor up to 17 inches thick.'
' Navy officials have said that the explosion in the No. 2 gun turret damaged only the turret.'
' The top members of the Senate Armed Services Committee said Friday the panel will hold hearings on the fiery explosion.'
' The explosion occurred during open seas gun practice 300 miles north of Puerto Rico.'
' The Pentagon said the blast ripped through the middle gun of the three-gun turret, and that that gun had not been fired prior to the explosion.'
' The Pentagon has ordered that no 16-inch gun will be fired until the investigation is complete.'
' Ships with those guns _ the battleships Iowa, New Jersey, Missouri and Wisconsin _ were built during World War II.'
' Some critics have said the 16-inch guns are outmoded and dangerous .'
' AP890422-0035'
' AP-NR-04-22-89 0551EST'
' r a PM-BattleshipMemorial 04-22 0578'
' PM-Battleship Memorial,0596'
' Hundreds Honor The USS Iowa Dead'
' LaserPhoto NK1'
' By D.W. PAGE'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NORFOLK, Va. (AP)'
" Hundreds of people gathered to honor the 47 sailors who died on the USS Iowa as victims of a tragedy that ``reaches into little towns all over the country''."
" ``Words are never sufficient at a time like this to express the feelings that we share,'' Norfolk Mayor Joseph Leafe told the more than 750 people who came to Friday's memorial at the Elizabeth River waterfront."
' The 58,000-ton battleship was steaming toward its home port here and was to arrive Sunday.'
" Meanwhile, Navy investigators on board studied an amateur videotape for clues into Wednesday's explosion in the ship's No. 2 gun turret."
" Lt. Cmdr. James Cudler, a Pentagon spokesman, said the explosion occurred as an Iowa officer was making a videotape to record the firing of the ship's big guns."
' Cudler said Navy officials had not decided whether to release the tape publicly.'
" Crewmen in the upper chambers of the gun turret were killed by the explosion and fire while sailors working several levels below suffocated when the blast sucked out all the oxygen, according to a report in today's editions of The Washington Post."
' Maj. Tom Johnston, a spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet in Norfolk, said he had no information on the causes of death.'
' The explosion came after two of the three guns had been loaded and just after the crew had been given permission to load and fire the center gun, the newspaper said.'
' After the fire was extinguished, crewmen worked quickly to remove the shells and powder from the other two guns, the newspaper said.'
' NBC News reported Friday that the exact cause of the explosion may never be known because the devastation inside the turret was so complete.'
' The top members of the Senate Armed Services Committee said the panel will hold hearings on the fiery explosion.'
' The Pentagon has ordered the 16-inch guns on all four World War II-era battleships silenced until the investigation is finished.'
' Some critics have said the 16-inch guns are outmoded and dangerous.'
' Jim Smith, 63, of Norfolk, said he attended the memorial because he considered the dead men his shipmates.'
' ``I served aboard the battleship North Carolina in 1946.'
" I know about those big guns .... I know these things can happen,'' he said."
' ``At times like this, everyone seems to pull together.'
" We become one family''."
' Joan Taplett, wife of a Navy commander, said she brought her 3-year-old son so he would always remember the men who died.'
" ``I'm from South Dakota."
" ... When I heard that one of the men killed was from there, I had to come,'' she said."
" ``I guess I'm here for his parents."
' Something like this touches all of us ...'
" It reaches into little towns all over the country,'' she said."
" David L. Hanson, a 23-year-old electrician's mate 3rd class from Bison, S.D., population 457, was among those killed."
' A wreath of 47 yellow carnations was cast into the river, a Norfolk police honor guard gave a 21-gun salute and a Navy bugler played taps at the 15-minute ceremony.'
' ``On the USS Iowa, 47 young men died too soon ...'
" We will remember, and honor and grieve as a nation,'' Gov. Gerald L."
' Baliles said.'
' The Navy is planning a ceremony for the crew and family members Monday morning at Norfolk Naval Base, with President Bush scheduled to attend .'
' AP890423-0090'
' AP-NR-04-23-89 2320EST'
' r a AM-Battleship-Explosion 4thLd-Writethru a0742 04-23 0918'
' AM-Battleship-Explosion, 4th Ld - Writethru, a0742,0939'
' Iowa Returns Home to Somber Reception'
" Eds: SUBS 5th graf, `The surviving...,' to clarify that only two of the surviving No. 2 turret crewmen stood atop the turret as ship landed ."
' By D.W. PAGE'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NORFOLK, Va. (AP)'
' The scarred battleship USS Iowa made a somber return Sunday to its home port, where about 3,000 family members and friends of the crew welcomed loved ones who escaped an explosion that killed 47 sailors.'
" Sailors in whites with black arm bands lined the rails as the huge vessel docked at the Norfolk Naval Base's Pier 5 at 5:41 p.m., just one minute later than Navy officials had estimated."
' Twenty minutes later, families started filing aboard the ship, exchanging tearful embraces with the returning sailors.'
" ``They wanted to get here on schedule and were anxious to get home,'' said Capt. Steven Karalekas."
" The explosion Wednesday flashed through the Iowa's No. 2 gun turret, which extends six decks down into the ship."
" There were 11 survivors inside the turret, all on the lowest deck loading powder from the ship's magazines, the Navy said."
" Two of the surviving crewmen of No. 2 turret stood on top of the fire-blackened turret as the ship pulled into the pier, with full crews on the ship's two other turrets, the Navy said."
' The No. 2 turret was in the same position as when the explosion occurred, facing right with the left and right guns elevated.'
' The center gun, where the blast occurred, was depressed.'
' When the 887-foot vessel first appeared there were scattered cheers by those on the dock, but all remained silent as the ship pulled into the pier.'
' The somber mood was heightened by the lack of bands, and few waves were exchanged as the ship docked.'
' Adm. Powell Carter, commander in chief of the Atlantic Fleet, was on the dock to greet the vessel.'
' As it docked, three Marines raised a flag to half-mast at the stern of the ship.'
' The Navy kept the news media about 300 yards from the families, and reporters were not allowed to talk with the families or the crewmen.'
' The violence and power of the turret explosion was shown in an amateur videotape released by the Navy on Sunday.'
' The tape was made by an officer on the bridge of the Iowa who wanted to record the firing of the big guns.'
" The detonation, which appears to blast away the gasket-like rubber ``bloomers'' that seal the turret's gun slits, is followed by a jet of intense fire and thick smoke from the front and base of the gunhouse."
' The videotape cut immediately to damage control firefighters spraying heavy streams of water onto the turret.'
' Throughout the Norfolk area, churches dedicated prayers Sunday morning to the families of Iowa crewmen.'
" ``We have lost 47 of our number in a tragic way,'' said Cmdr. John L. Fitzgerald, a chaplain, in a service at the Norfolk Naval Air Station."
" ``Our faith helps us to handle what science cannot answer, the mystery of death''."
' A red rose, a yellow ribbon with the number 47 on it and a book containing the names of the dead were taken to the altar.'
" Fitzgerald said the Iowa tragedy and that of a recently lost Soviet submarine ``put political differences aside and unite the human family as one''."
' On Monday morning, President Bush will lead a memorial service in a base hangar that can accommodate 3,000 people.'
' The families of the victims were invited, but Navy officials said they did not know how many would attend.'
' None of the victims listed the Norfolk area as their hometown.'
' The explosion occurred during exercises off Puerto Rico.'
' The Pentagon said it happened before the middle 16-inch gun of the three-gun turret had been fired.'
' The guns, the largest on any ship at sea, use six 110-pound bags of black powder to fire a 2,700-pound projectile up to 23 miles.'
' The Navy has refused to speculate on the cause of the explosion, which damaged only the inside of the turret.'
" But Navy teams who entered the turret immediately after the blast found the No. 2 gun's breech open and undamaged, with the practice projectile that the gun was to have fired still there, The New York Times reported Sunday."
' This indicated the explosion occurred while the powder bags were still being loaded into the gun, the Times said, citing unidentified sources.'
' Navy gunnery officers believe the explosion occurred when the bags were being transferred from a powder hoist to the gun, the newspaper said.'
' They said flame and hot gases from the blast went down the hoist to the lowest deck; if the transfer of powder to the guns had been complete, the hoist would have been sealed off.'
' The Iowa and its sister ships, the battleships Missouri, New Jersey and Wisconsin, were commissioned during World War II and mothballed after the Korean War.'
' They were recommissioned by the Reagan administration in the 1980s.'
' Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said Sunday that the administration plans to keep all four battleships in the fleet despite the explosion.'
" ``They are effective, they were relatively cheap to bring back into the service compared to new ships, they are good cruise missile platforms, so I think they do have a role to play,'' Cheney said on NBC's ``Meet the Press''."
" Critics have charged that the battleship's 16-inch guns are antiquated and dangerous; gunners say they are among the most accurate available ."
' AP890424-0026'
' AP-NR-04-24-89 0129EST'
' r w PM-BattleshipInvestigation 04-24 0408'
' PM-Battleship Investigation,400'
' Iowa Explosion Investigators Will Seek Evidence of Human, Mechanical Error'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
' Navy investigators will be looking at all possibilities of human or mechanical error in their effort to determine what caused the explosion that killed 47 aboard the battleship USS Iowa, officials say.'
' It could take months before the probe is completed and the results released publicly, Navy spokesman Lt.'
' Cmdr. Alan Dooley said Sunday.'
" A seven-member team of investigators boarded the battleship a day after the explosion flashed through the Iowa's No. 2 gun turret on Wednesday."
" ``They're looking at any evidence of human error or mechanical error, or anything technical,'' said Lt. Janet Mescus, a spokeswoman at the Navy's information center at Norfolk, Va., the ship's home port."
' The Iowa returned to Norfolk on Sunday.'
" ``They're moving as quickly as they can,'' Lt. Mescus said, but added, ``They want to be thorough and that takes time''."
" Dooley said the investigation would be ``fairly complex'' because there were no witnesses."
" There were 11 survivors inside the turret, all on the lowest deck loading powder from the ship's magazines, the Navy said."
' Dooley said no information would be released until the probe is completed, and the Navy has refused to speculate on the cause of the explosion, which damaged only the inside of the turret.'
" But The New York Times reported Sunday that Navy teams who entered the turret immediately after the blast found the No. 2 gun's breech open and undamaged, with the practice projectile that the gun was to have fired still there."
' The Times cited unidentified sources as saying this indicated the explosion occurred while the bags containing 550 pounds of propellant powder were still being loaded into the gun.'
' Navy gunnery officers believe the explosion occurred when the bags were being transferred from a powder hoist to the gun, the newspaper said.'
' They said flame and hot gases from the blast went down the hoist to the lowest deck; if the transfer of powder to the guns had been complete, the hoist would have been sealed off.'
' The Navy on Sunday released an amateur videotape of the explosion, which was made by an officer on the bridge of the Iowa who wanted to record the firing of the guns.'
' The investigation team is headed by Rear Adm. Richard D. Milligan, former commanding officer of the battleship USS New Jersey, and it also includes experts on gunnery and weapons .'
' AP890425-0013'
' AP-NR-04-25-89 0144EST'
' r a AM-BattleshipExplosion 3rdLd-Writethru a0746 04-25 1018'
' AM-Battleship Explosion, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0746,1046'
" President, Ship Captain Honor Iowa's Dead"
" Eds: INSERTS 1 graf after 24th, ```Nobody in...,' to UPDATE with skipper refusing to say definitely whether turret can be repaired ."
' LaserPhotos NKX5,6,8,9,10,11,13,15, LaserColor NKX5C,NKX9C'
' By D.W. PAGE'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NORFOLK, Va. (AP)'
" Thousands of grieving friends and relatives of the fallen 47 crewmen from the battleship USS Iowa gathered quietly Monday and heard President Bush praise their loved ones as ``brothers in eternity''."
" ``We join today in mourning for the 47 who perished, and in fact, for the 11 who survived,'' the president told a packed memorial service at Norfolk Naval Air Station."
" ``They all were, in the words of a poet, `the men behind the guns'."
' ``They came from Hidalgo, Texas; Cleveland, Ohio; Tampa, Florida; Costa Mesa, California.'
' They came to the Navy as strangers, served the Navy as shipmates and friends, and left the Navy as brothers in eternity.'
" In the finest Navy tradition, they served proudly on a great battleship, the USS Iowa''."
' The president, a World War II Navy pilot, said he was proud to recommission the Iowa in 1984 and said it had earned 11 battle stars in two wars.'
" But with the still-unexplained fire and explosion last Wednesday in the battleship's No. 2 gun turret, he said, ``Fate has written a sorrowful chapter in the history of this great ship''."
" The Iowa's commander, Capt. Fred P. Moosally, said the turret's crew was the best gun crew on the ship, and called its chief _ Chief Gunner's Mate Reginald Owen Ziegler of Port Gibson, N.Y."
" _ ``my No. 1 chief''."
" Victims' relatives and hundreds of sailors and officers in dress blues were among the 6,000 people crowded into a hangar for the service."
" A bouquet of red roses was placed in front of the podium; behind were an American flag and the battleship's banners."
' Outside, another 2,000 people listened to the service on loudspeakers.'
' As many as 500 Iowa crewmen were unable to attend the service because they were delayed by traffic and were not permitted to enter the hangar because of security measures to protect Bush.'
" Many were angry they could not attend, said Machinist's Mate David Finn, 38."
" ``It was very important to them,'' Finn said."
' The service came a day after the World War II-era battleship eased into its home port, its gun barrels scorched and its 1,500 crewmen at the rails in white uniforms and black armbands in memory of their dead shipmates.'
' Moosally told the crowd of mourners that he remembered the men of turret No. 2.'
" ``I remember their faces as they toiled at their guns, sweating an honest sweat that comes from young men dedicated to a great cause,'' he said."
" ``I remember as they talked among themselves, looking so much like sailors of the past, sharing the exuberance of the times and the dreams of the future,'' he said."
' ``They were the life, the spirit and the soul of our ship.'
' ... They made the ultimate sacrifice for us.'
" ... The men of Turret Two will be part of the spirit of the Iowa forever''."
' Bush recounted seeing the Iowa off the coast of the Philippines as a naval aviator in World War II, and the great sense of confidence the big ship lent to the fleet.'
" Addressing the children of the victims, he said: ``You must never forget that your father was America's pride''."
' At the end of the service, while the Navy Hymn was played, President and Mrs. Bush greeted and consoled the families of the lost men.'
' After the 45-minute service, the families attended a private reception with Moosally.'
" The Navy said 45 victims' families attended the service."
' At a press briefing following the reception, Moosally praised the hundreds of men who fought the fire for their courage.'
" ``God gave birth to 500 heroes,'' the captain said."
' ``Fire on a ship is the most terrifying fear ...'
' you have nowhere to run.'
" ``Our extensive training paid off,'' he said."
" ``Besides the firefighting crews, we had cooks, engineers, deck seamen, Marines all fighting to save the ship''."
' Moosally said the blast occurred just as he was turning to Vice Adm. Jerome Johnson, commander of the 2nd Fleet, to tell him to watch the No. 2 turret because it contained his best crew.'
" ``This was my best turret,'' Moosally said."
' He said turret chief Ziegler ``was the most meticulous of men.'
' He was my No. 1 chief of the 84 chiefs aboard.'
" ``Nobody in that turret did anything unless they were qualified,'' Moosally said."
" Moosally refused to give a definite answer to reporters' questions about whether the damaged turret could be repaired, saying the battleship could operate without it if necessary."
' All but 11 men in the huge gun turret died almost instantly last Wednesday when the explosion ripped through it.'
' At the time, the Iowa was conducting open seas gun exercises off Puerto Rico.'
' The Navy said the investigation into the blast is continuing.'
' Navy officials have refused to speculate on the cause of the explosion.'
" Cmdr. John P. Morse, the Iowa's weapons officer, said the guns were thoroughly inspected the morning of the accident, and Moosally said he had no hesitation about the guns' safety."
" ``I'll be in the turret for the first shot to go off,'' the captain said."
" One of the survivors, Gunner's Mate 3rd Class Kendall L. Truitt, 21, of Tampa, Fla., said that at first the men down in the powder magazine in the lowest level of the turret didn't know anything was wrong."
" ``We were waiting for the gun to fire, and we weren't sure,'' he said."
' When the men discovered that no one was answering the interior turret communications link, Truitt ordered the powder returned to the magazine and the compartment evacuated.'
' The sailors found smoke everywhere as they climbed through hatches and up ladders outside the turret toward the sea deck, Truitt recalled.'
" ``My first thought was that I'd better get to a lifeboat station, because if the fire got to the magazine things would be bad,'' he said ."
' LA041989-0141'
' 46451'
' April 19, 1989, Wednesday, P.M. Final'
' Part A; Page 1; Column 3; Late Final Desk'
' 463 words'
' BLAST KILLS 47 ON BATTLESHIP IOWA;'
' EXPLOSION IN GUN TURRET ROCKS VESSEL NEAR PUERTO RICO'
' From Times Wire Services'
' WASHINGTON'
' A fiery explosion in a giant gun turret rocked the refitted battleship Iowa on maneuvers in the Atlantic today, killing at least 47 sailors and injuring an undetermined number, the Pentagon said .'
' Defense Department spokesman Dan Howard said the explosion may have resulted from the blast of a 110-pound gunpowder bag used to fire shells that weigh more than a ton a distance of up to 23 miles .'
' The 16-inch guns are the biggest in the Navy arsenal .'
' "We assume it was a powder bag," Howard said in Brussels .'
' Another spokesman said at least 47 crewmen were killed in the explosion that ripped through the turret when one of the giant guns was being fired during a training exercise about 330 miles northeast of Puerto Rico .'
' No Danger of Sinking'
' The crew extinguished the fire that broke out.'
' The spokesman said he had no word on the number of injured .'
' The aircraft carrier Coral Sea steamed to the scene, sending out helicopters to land supplies and medical crews on the ship .'
' The Iowa headed toward Roosevelt Roads Naval Base in Puerto Rico.'
' It was in no danger of sinking .'
' "We lost fine young lives," President Bush said during a photo session with congressional leaders at the White House .'
' "It\'s a great tragedy and a matter of terrible sadness," Bush said.'
' He said he wanted to "express my regrets, especially to the families" of the victims .'
' Guns Date From 1943'
' Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Adm. William Crowe were informed of the incident while attending a NATO defense ministers meeting in Brussels .'
" The Iowa's 16-inch guns are in three turrets."
' The explosion took place in the No. 2 turret .'
" The guns are originals dating from the ship's first commissioning at the height of World War II in 1943 as a sister ship of the Missouri, aboard which the Japanese signed the war-ending surrender document ."
' The powder bags are stored below decks in heavily armored magazines.'
' Defense officials traveling with Cheney said seawater was pumped into the magazine where the fire and explosion occurred .'
" Each of the ship's nine guns requires a crew of 60 to 70 to operate it, with 20 to 30 people in the turret and the others below, sending up shells and powder bags."
' The powder bags are loaded behind the shells .'
' Often Refurbished'
' "It\'s rather labor-intensive," a Pentagon spokesman said .'
' The Iowa itself has been refurbished many times since it was commissioned and was most recently put back into service in December, 1982 .'
" The ship was deployed in the Persian Gulf region between September, 1987, and February, 1988, as a symbol of America's ability to strike deep into Iran."
' It also saw service in the Korean War .'
' The ship, 58,000 tons fully loaded, sails out of Norfolk, Va., and carries a crew of about 1,600 .'
' Photo, Battleship Iowa loads munitions and supplies in Hampton Roads.'
' Associated Press'
' Wire'
' LA042389-0098'
' 47781'
' April 23, 1989, Sunday, Home Edition'
' Part 1; Page 4; Column 1; National Desk'
' 358 words'
' AUTOPSIES OF 12 IOWA VICTIMS COMPLETED'
' From Times Wire Services'
' DOVER AIR FORCE BASE, Del .'
' A dozen of the 47 sailors killed in an explosion aboard the battleship Iowa have undergone pathology exams, and an official said four of them were dressed in full military uniform and sent to their hometowns Saturday for burial .'
' Air Force spokesman Capt. Walter Thorp said Saturday it will take as long as 10 days to complete the pathology process on the remaining 35 sailors who died when gunpowder exploded in the No. 2 turret of the Iowa on Wednesday, as the World War II-era battleship was conducting an exercise 200 miles northeast of Puerto Rico .'
' Although autopsies are not conducted at the base as a matter of policy, the Navy requested forensics exams for each of the sailors .'
' As Navy officials continued their inquiry into the explosion, sailors aboard the Wisconsin, sister ship to the Iowa, opened their ship Saturday in Norfolk, Va., to talk about their pride in battleships and the sense of loss .'
' Sailors Knew Victims'
' "The one thing on our mind is the tragic loss of many of our ex-shipmates," said Capt. Jerry M. Blesch, commander of the Wisconsin.'
' With only four battleships in the Navy, many aboard the Iowa once served on the Wisconsin .'
" 'Face Same Dangers'"
' "These are all old ships," said Lt. Matt Schatzle, 25, of Gulfport, Miss., who commands the three 16-inch guns of the Wisconsin\'s turret No. 3.'
' "The crews have a connection with all the old sailors who served on the same ships back in World War II.'
' . . . They do the same jobs, they face the same dangers" .'
" Norfolk Naval Base prepared to welcome home the Iowa, which is expected to arrive at the world's largest naval station this afternoon, and local merchants offered free services to families of the victims ."
' Lt. Cmdr. Alan Dooley said a team of six investigators was aboard the ship, searching for clues to the blast .'
' He said no cause of death has been announced for any sailors, but the Washington Post reported that seamen in the upper chambers of gun turret No. 2 died instantly in the fiery explosion, whereas those in the lower levels were suffocated as the blast siphoned off their oxygen.'
' Dooley refused to comment on the newspaper report .'
" Photo, Gunner's Mate 2nd Class Thomas Lowney points out breech of 16-inch gun in turret on battleship Wisconsin."
' Turret is similar to one on sister ship Iowa where explosion occurred.'
' Associated Press'
' Wire'
' IOWA (SHIP); DISASTER VICTIMS; EXPLOSIONS  UNITED STATES; SHIP ACCIDENTS  NAVY (U.S.); SHIP ACCIDENTS  UNITED STATES; NAVY (U.S).'
'  PERSONNEL; AUTOPSIES; MILITARY SHIPS; MILITARY MANEUVERS'
' LA042489-0051'
' 48181'
' April 24, 1989, Monday, Home Edition'
' Part 1; Page 4; Column 1; National Desk'
' 613 words'
' FAMILY, FRIENDS OF CREW WATCH IN SILENCE AS IOWA RETURNS TO PORT'
' From Associated Press'
' NORFOLK, Va .'
' The scarred battleship Iowa made a somber return Sunday to its home port, where about 3,000 family members and friends of the crew welcomed loved ones who escaped an explosion that killed 47 sailors .'
" Sailors in whites with black arm bands lined the rails as the huge vessel docked at the Norfolk Naval Base's Pier 5."
' Twenty minutes later, families started filing aboard the ship, exchanging tearful embraces with the returning sailors .'
" The explosion Wednesday flashed through the Iowa's No. 2 gun turret, which extends six decks down into the ship."
" There were 11 survivors inside the turret, all on the lowest deck where they were loading powder from the ship's magazines, the Navy said ."
' Crewmen Stand on Turret'
" Two of the surviving crewmen of No. 2 turret stood on top of the fire-blackened turret as the ship pulled into the pier, with full crews on the ship's two other turrets ."
' When the vessel first appeared there were scattered cheers among those on the dock, but all remained silent as the ship pulled into the pier .'
' Adm. Powell F. Carter, commander in chief of the Atlantic Fleet, was there to greet the vessel.'
' As the ship docked, three Marines raised a flag to half-staff at the stern .'
' The Navy kept the news media about 300 yards from the families, and reporters were not allowed to talk with the families or crewmen .'
' The violence and power of the turret explosion was shown in an amateur videotape released by the Navy on Sunday.'
' The tape was made by an officer on the bridge of the Iowa who wanted to record the firing of the big guns .'
' Jet of Intense Fire'
' The detonation, which appears to blast away the gasket-like rubber "bloomers" that seal the turret\'s gun slits, is followed by a jet of intense fire and thick smoke from the front and base of the gunhouse .'
' The videotape cut immediately to damage-control firefighters spraying heavy streams of water onto the turret .'
' Churches throughout the area dedicated prayers Sunday morning to the families of Iowa crewmen .'
' "We have lost 47 of our number in a tragic way," said Cmdr. John L. Fitzgerald, a chaplain, in a service at the Norfolk Naval Air Station.'
' "Our faith helps us to handle what science cannot answer, the mystery of death" .'
' A red rose, a yellow ribbon with the number 47 on it and a book containing the names of the dead were taken to the altar .'
' This morning, President Bush will lead a memorial service in a base hangar that can accommodate 3,000 people.'
' The families of the victims were invited, but Navy officials said they did not know how many would attend .'
' The explosion occurred during exercises off Puerto Rico.'
' The Pentagon said it happened before the middle 16-inch gun of the three-gun turret had been fired.'
' The guns, the largest on any ship at sea, use six 110-pound bags of black powder to fire a 2,700-pound projectile up to 23 miles .'
' Recommissioned by Reagan'
' The Iowa and its sister ships, the Missouri, New Jersey and Wisconsin, were commissioned during World War II and mothballed after the Korean War.'
' They were recommissioned during the Ronald Reagan Administration .'
' Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said Sunday that he believes the four battleships still "have merit" as weapons in the U.S. arsenal and have a future in the modern Navy.'
' On NBC\'s "Meet the Press," Cheney called the ships "one way to supplement" the usefulness of carrier battle groups "in terms of a show of force and showing the flag" .'
' "They are effective," he said.'
' "They were relatively cheap to bring back into service compared to new ships; they\'re good cruise missile platforms, so I do think they have a role to play.'
' The question is how you do that and how you pay for it" .'
' Photo, Iowa returns home  Sailors line decks of battleship Iowa, where explosion killed 47 last week, as it steams into Norfolk, Va.'
' Guns at left are in No. 2 turret, where blast occurred.'
' About 3,000 relatives and friends greeted the ship.'
' Associated Press'
' Wire'
' NAVY (U.S).'
'  PERSONNEL; SHIP ACCIDENTS  NAVY (U.S.); EXPLOSIONS  UNITED STATES; FIRES; CASUALTIES; IOWA (SHIP); RELIGIOUS SERVICES; MEMORIALS; BUSH, GEORGE'
