' AP890922-0007'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 0022EDT'
' u a AM-Hugo 10thLd-Writethru a0404-5 09-22 0832'
' AM-Hugo, 10th Ld-Writethru, a0404-5, 2 Takes,0851'
' URGENT'
' Killer Storm Hits South Carolina Coast'
' Eds: LEADS with 17 grafs to UPDATE with eye passing just east of Charleston, 119 mph winds reported in city, other details.'
" Picks up 19th graf pvs, `Near its...'"
' LaserPhotos MH2, BEF1, LaserGraphic'
' By BRUCE SMITH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP)'
' Hurricane Hugo struck South Carolina with renewed fury Thursday after thousands of coastal residents in southeastern states grabbed what they could carry and fled inland on jammed highways.'
" ``This is a disaster staring us right in the eye,'' Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. said from his City Hall command post in Charleston, where the hurricane downed power lines, snapped trees and caused utility transformers to explode."
" ``All we can do now is pray and hope all the precautions we have taken have been sufficient,'' Riley said as Hugo's eye bore in on the city."
" ``I just hope and pray we can get through this without any loss of life''."
' By midnight, 119 mph winds were reported in Charleston.'
' The roof cracked at City Hall, a 188-year-old brick building that has withstood several hurricanes, and torrents of water poured into the paneled council chamber.'
' Phone and electric service to the command post was knocked out.'
' Hurricane-force winds first hit the coast by 9:15 p.m. EDT, and about three hours later the eye of the storm passed over the Isle of Palms just east of Charleston, said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla.'
' The eye was about 10 miles across and top winds were still at 135 mph. Hugo was expected to turn gradually to the north, causing severe flooding as it moved up the East Coast.'
' The storm posed a 19 percent chance of hitting New York City and a 16 percent chance of hitting Boston before Sunday night, the hurricane center said.'
' As Hugo neared the coast, roads from Hilton Head to Myrtle Beach, 200 miles north, were nearly empty, as were the boarded-up resort towns themselves.'
' Power lines and trees were downed in some spots and water flooded roads.'
' Stop lights and neon lights were knocked out in Myrtle Beach.'
" ``One eyewitness said `It's like a light show,''' said Amy Garrison, a reporter at WKZQ AM-FM in Myrtle Beach."
' In Charleston, the hurricane littered streets with tin roofs, palmetto fronds and chunks of bark.'
' Businesses were closed and classes at public schools and universities canceled.'
' Riley ordered residents of one-story homes to evacuate.'
' Hospitals stockpiled supplies, discharging any patients well enough to go and moving others to hospitals inland to make room for emergency patients, officials said.'
' About 12,000 people had checked into 83 shelters across the state as of Thursday evening, and more were expected, said Bennish Brown, a spokesman for the Emergency Operations Center in Columbia, 220 miles northwest of here.'
" ``We tried to close the doors but people are sneaking in side doors,'' said Elaine Skelton, a registered nurse working at the Conway High School shelter near Myrtle Beach."
" ``We tried to post guards at the doors, but people were still coming in''."
' American Red Cross relief efforts were buckling under the number of evacuees, said Brian Ruberry, a spokesman in Savannah, Ga., who appealed for help.'
' ``Right now the Red Cross is sheltering tens of thousands of people all along the Eastern seaboard.'
" This of course is at the same time that we're sheltering 25,000 people on Puerto Rico and the other Caribbean islands."
" ``We're beginning to feel the squeeze."
' Our resources are very tight.'
" Right now Hugo is shaping up to be one of our biggest relief operations of the decade''."
' At midnight, the center of Hugo was near latitude 32.7 degrees north and longitude 79.9 degrees west, forecasters said.'
" The hurricane's speed had picked up to 22 mph from 20 mph earlier."
" Near its center, Hugo's muscle reached winds of 135 mph, up from 125 mph earlier in the day and 105 mph the day before."
' North and South Carolina can expect tornadoes linked to Hugo for the next two days, according to the hurricane center.'
' The coastal area could expect hurricane force winds for 10 to 12 hours once the eye comes ashore, officials said.'
' A hurricane warning was in effect between Fernandina Beach, Fla., and Oregon Inlet, N.C.'
' By late afternoon, Hugo was upgraded to a category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale of strength, the second mightiest category, which indicated it could cause extreme damage.'
" ``It strengthened more than we thought it would,'' Sheets said, adding that Hugo would cause severe flooding as it moved up the Appalachians."
" The timing of the landfall was critical because of the storm's tidal surge, a dome of water 10 to 15 feet high that would feed a normal 5-foot high tide that peaks after 2 a.m."
" ``On top of that will be waves,'' Sheets said earlier, and in many places on barrier islands ``the buildings will be swept clean off.''"
' MORE'
' AP890922-0049'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 0413EDT'
' r a PM-Hugo-CharlestonHistory 1stLd-Writethru a0475 09-22 0361'
' PM-Hugo-Charleston History, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0475,0367'
' Hurricane Latest in String of Disasters to Hit Historic City'
' With PM-Hugo-Scene, Bjt'
" Eds: LEADS with 6 grafs to UPDATE with storm having hit; picks up 6th graf, `Charleston, a city ...'"
' By BRUCE SMITH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP)'
' This historic city has survived the ravages of earthquake, battle and storm in its storied 300-year-history, but it faced perhaps its greatest test of all in Hurricane Hugo.'
' The storm, packing winds of up to 135 mph, raged into Charleston Thursday night.'
" ``This is a dangerous, killer hurricane, the likes of which few people who have lived all their lives in Charleston have experienced,'' warned Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. Hugo was the first major hurricane to strike Charleston since Hurricane Gracie came ashore 70 miles to the south in 1959."
' The seaside community has suffered through many disasters, both natural and man-made.'
' The worst in recent decades was in 1938 when a tornado tore through the city, killing 32 people, injuring hundreds and causing an estimated $2 million in property damage.'
' Charleston, a city of pastel-colored antebellum structures lining quaint streets and alleyways, is where the Civil War began in 1861.'
" The city has survived the shot and shell of two wars and any number of smaller hurricanes, politely referred to by Charlestonians of refinement as ``September gales''."
' But the worst natural disaster to beset the city occurred on the hot night of Aug. 31, 1886, when the ground rumbled in what some folks thought was a prelude to Judgement Day.'
' The great Charleston earthquake was felt as far away as Chicago and New York City.'
" Measuring 7.7 on the Richter scale of ground motion, the earthquake claimed an estimated 110 lives, destroyed 102 buildings and tossed most of the city's 14,000 chimneys into the streets."
' In recent years, the city has attracted millions of visitors annually who tour its historic buildings and visit its nearby fine sand beaches.'
' Charleston has received international acclaim as home to Spoleto Festival U.S.A., founded by composer Gian Carlo Menotti.'
" Organizers like to refer to Spoleto as the world's most comprehensive arts festival ."
' AP890922-0072'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 0652EDT'
' r a PM-HurricaneCenter-Scene 09-22 0462'
' PM-Hurricane Center-Scene,0473'
' Hurricane Forecasters Carry On Amid Chaos'
' With PM-Hugo, Bjt'
' By CAROL PUGH'
' Associated Press writer'
' CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP)'
' Amid the uproar of live coverage by the major networks and scores of other media organizations, National Hurricane Center forecasters went about their business of monitoring Hurricane Hugo.'
" ``The whole system looks chaotic, but it works,'' said Bob Sheets, the center's director."
' On one side of a large room dominated by a U-shaped bank of monitoring equipment were the forecasters, making meticulous calculations about where the deadly hurricane will strike and getting emergency operations going in those areas.'
" On the other side were the media _ a pack of reporters, camera operators and technicians, jockeying for seconds of Sheets' time and tidbits of his expertise."
' In the center was Sheets himself.'
' Surrounded by cameras, wires and two dozen journalists with pads and telephones, the ubiquitous red-headed meteorologist has appeared on television all week next to a large satellite monitor showing colorful images of Hurricane Hugo.'
' During prime news time, competing technicians and cameramen shout and make rude hand gestures for people to get out of their shots of Sheets.'
' At his back, casually dressed forecasters who have been working 12-hour days tracked the storm via computers and satellites.'
" ``We obviously don't like this and could probably do a better job, but everyone knows now because of the media,'' said hurricane specialist Max Mayfield."
' ``In the Caribbean, we were not so certain the word got out.'
" But we know the Carolinas have been evacuated''."
" When a hurricane warning goes into effect, ``It's a $50 million statement,'' said meteorologist Joel Cline, referring to the cost of emergency preparations and evacuation plans that must be implemented when the warning is posted."
" ``If we weren't here, then you wouldn't know that a storm was out there,'' he said."
" Before the hurricane warning system was established, a storm of Hugo's power would have cost thousands of lives."
' But early today, after days of warnings and proper evacuation procedures, there were no immediate reports of deaths despite widespread damage in Charleston and other coastal areas of South Carolina.'
" ``I like to think that we make a difference a far as human lives are concerned,'' Cline said."
" After Hugo's landfall, Sheets and the other forecasters began to wind down from the hectic pace they had maintained for the last several days."
' But, he warned, the hurricane center still is following three other weather systems that have moved into the Atlantic between the United States and Africa, and another storm in the Pacific.'
" ``I hate to say we're breathing a sigh of relief because people are getting clobbered to death,'' meteorologist Mark Zimmer said as the storm pounded Charleston, S.C."
" ``But we've done all we can.''"
' AP890922-0167'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 2031EDT'
' r a AM-Hugo-Tracking 09-22 0533'
' AM-Hugo-Tracking,0554'
' Forecasting Aided By Supercomputers, But Still An Uncertain Science'
' With AM-Hugo, Bjt'
' By KIM S. MARTIN'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MIAMI (AP)'
' Supercomputers, satellites and the expertise of several hurricane forecasters predicted the destructive path Hurricane Hugo would follow, giving people plenty of time to flee the South Carolina coast.'
' But hurricane tracking remains an uncertain science.'
" Forecasters at the National Hurricane Center used computer models to track Hugo's path into Charleston, S.C."
" ``All the world's knowledge about meteorological conditions and forecasting changes in those conditions is embodied in those models,'' said Thomas Pyke, head of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's satellite service."
" Pinpointing the exact point of Hugo's landfall was difficult, but forecasters said Friday that the landfall was predicted in time for evacuation."
" ``Overall, I think the tracking models gave us a very good idea where Hugo would be so officials in South Carolina could act in a timely manner,'' said research meteorologist Colin McAdie."
' The real forecasting problem with Hugo was predicting the intensity of the storm, which was upgraded to a Category 4 hurricane just hours before it slammed into Charleston.'
" ``It is very difficult to predict changes in intensity because we don't have very reliable computer models for that,'' McAdie said."
" ``We really need to improve on our forecasting ability of strength''."
' The hurricane specialists were surprised by the last-minute increase in wind speed, which was reported to them by Air Force reconnaissance.'
' Hurricane specialist Gil Clark, who has tracked hurricanes for 35 years, said that a couple of decades ago, the only forecasting tools were reports from aircraft or ships.'
" ``We had no radar or satellites then, so needless to say our forecasts were less accurate,'' Clark said."
' In the late 1960s, the weather service began using satellites to obtain a global weather picture.'
' Information from the satellite is used to improve the accuracy of the large-scale models that television viewers see every night.'
' Using the information from the satellite, supercomputers at the National Meteorological Center in Suitland, Md., send information to the hurricane center where a tracking model constantly changes to account for current weather conditions and the position of the hurricane.'
' To determine the track of the storm, the forecasters analyze supercomputer predictions, satellite data, the history of similar storms and the current path of the hurricane.'
' Then they make an educated guess about the landfall.'
' Meteorology professor Kerry A. Emmanuel of the Massachussetts Institute of Technology criticizes the current forecasting system.'
" ``Congress and the American people are suffering from the collective delusion that our data problems have been solved by satellites and that just isn't true,'' Emmanuel said."
" Satellites can give a ``pretty picture,'' he said, but not enough information about the wind and temperatures that affect a hurricane's path."
" ``Most of the information actually used to predict hurricanes comes from flying airplanes into the hurricane, and they do a very good job,'' Emmanuel said."
' Forecasters say the accuracy of satellite pictures is improving every year so long-range forecasting should become more precise.'
" ``We have to remember that those models used are only guidance products,'' Pyke said, ``and that it's ultimately the job of the forecaster to predict the storm's path.''"
' AP890922-0193'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 2114EDT'
' r a AM-Hugo-Chronology 1stLd-Writethru a0714 09-22 0718'
' AM-Hugo-Chronology, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0714,0735'
" Hugo's Path of Destruction"
' Eds: UPDATES with Hugo losing designation, no longer being tracked .'
' With AM-Hugo Bjt'
' By The Associated Press'
" Here is a chronology of Hurricane Hugo's destructive path across the Caribbean into South Carolina:"
' Sept. 11 _ Forecasters monitor new tropical wave forming off West Africa, southwest of the Cape Verde Islands.'
' Sept. 12 _ Storm reaches the 39 mph tropical storm threshold and is named Hugo.'
' Sept. 13 _ Hugo develops into a hurricane as winds reach 74 mph.'
' Storm is about 1,000 miles east of the Lesser Antilles island chain.'
' Sept. 14 _ Winds increase to 115 mph; storm is 650 miles east of Lesser Antilles.'
' Sept. 15 _ Winds reach 150 mph.'
" Storm, designated a Category 4 hurricane, is considered ``extremely dangerous''."
' Located 340 east miles of French territorial island of Guadeloupe.'
' Sept. 16 _ Hugo bears down on Guadeloupe and Dominica with winds reaching 140 mph.'
' Sept. 17 _ Eye of Hugo is directly over Guadeloupe.'
' Guadeloupe is devasted by winds measuring up to 150 mph.'
' Five people are reported killed, 84 injured and more than 15,000 homeless on the island of 340,000 people.'
' Roofs were torn off, power lines downed and crops damaged.'
' Sept. 17 _ Hugo hits British island of Montserrat.'
' Nine people are killed and hundreds of buildings are flattened.'
' The British government says nearly all of the 12,000 island residents are homeless.'
' Sept. 17 _ On Antigua, two people are killed and there is widespread wind and rain damage.'
' Island hotels report water and wind damage.'
' Sept. 17 _ No casualties are reported on the island of St. Kitts, but houses are damaged and communications nearly severed.'
' Sept. 17 _ On the British Virgin Islands, trees are uprooted and power and communications knocked out.'
' On the resort island of Tortola, residents say there are numerous injuries and scores of homes destroyed.'
' In the U.S.'
' Virgin Islands, the popular tourist islands of St. Croix and St. Thomas are hard hit.'
' At least one person is reported killed on St. Croix.'
' Early reports say 97 percent of the buildings were damaged or destroyed on St. Croix, population 53,000.'
' Sailboats were blown out of the water and thrown up to 150 feet on shore in St. Thomas.'
' Some waterfront businesses disappeared.'
' On St. Croix, widespread looting is reported, including raids by machete-wielding gangs.'
' Some reports say prisoners escaped from jail and were roaming free and National Guardsman and police were joining in the looting.'
' Sept. 18 (daybreak) _ Hugo crosses the northeast corner of Puerto Rico.'
' Damage is estimated at hundreds of millions of dollars and homes of at least 50,000 people were destroyed or damaged.'
' At least three people are killed.'
' National Guardsmen were aiding the cleanup and trying to stop widespread looting.'
' The Pentagon said some of its facilities, including U.S.'
' Naval Station at Roosevelts Roads in Puerto Rico, were heavily damaged.'
' Sept. 19 _ On the Bahamas, islanders boarded up homes and stocked up as Hugo moved westward.'
' The storm brushes past the islands, with minimal damage, moving on a course parallel to the islands.'
' Sept. 20 _ Headed toward the southeast coast of the United States, Hugo has winds of 105-125 mph.'
' Sept. 21 _ Hugo picks up speed and power.'
' Winds reach 135 mph.'
' Hurricane is again classified as a Category 4 hurricane, capable of extreme damage.'
' Sept. 21 (midnight) _ Hugo crashes into Charleston, S.C., with winds of 135 mph, leveling buildings and flooding streets.'
' In addition to flooding, fires from natural gas leaks erupt in Charleston.'
' Several other coastal communities also suffer heavy damage.'
' Ten people in the Carolinas are killed.'
' Sept. 22 _ The hurricane, with steadily diminishing winds, continues to move inland and is downgraded to a tropical storm.'
' Further weakening is expected as it moves north with its load of heavy rain.'
' Sept. 22 _ Hugo was downgraded to a tropical storm at 6 a.m. Friday.'
' Twelve hours later it had all but lost the characteristics of a tropical storm and was weakening, although the weather system featured maximum sustained winds of 40 mph and torrential rains.'
' Its last location was just west of Pittsburgh, Pa., at latitude 40.5 degrees north and longitude 81 degrees west.'
' Officials said no further tracking would be done .'
' AP890923-0035'
' AP-NR-09-23-89 0536EDT'
' r a PM-Hugo-Future 09-23 0468'
' PM-Hugo-Future,0484'
' Scientists: Warming Trends Could Mean Fiercer Hurricanes'
' With PM-Hugo, Bjt'
' By RICHARD COLE'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MIAMI (AP)'
" The ``greenhouse effect'' may breed bigger and deadlier hurricanes in the future, storms up to 50 percent stronger than Hugo and last year's record-setting Gilbert, some meteorologists say."
' Hugo blasted the eastern Caribbean and the Carolinas with 135 mph winds this past week, killing at least 41 people.'
' Just before Hugo struck the U.S. coast, its pressure was measured at 940 millibars.'
" That made it among the 12 strongest hurricanes this century to hit the United States, the National Hurricane Center's Miles Lawrence said today."
' Gilbert, whose winds reached 180 mph, tore up the Caribbean last year, killing 300 and causing $2 billion damage.'
' It was the most powerful hurricane ever recorded.'
' Gilbert seems to be about the upper limit of a hurricane with current ocean temperatures, said Kerry Emanuel of the meteorology department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.'
" But if the seas warm up, say by 3 to 6 degrees Fahrenheit, ``the wind speeds might be 25 percent higher _ which means the destructive force would be more like 50 percent higher,'' he said."
' Stephen Schneider, deputy director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Denver, said his research suggests the warming trend is already here.'
" Schneider, an expert on the greenhouse effect and author of a new book ``Global Warming,'' said six of the 10 hottest years in the last 100 occurred in the 1980s."
' He projects that the 1990s will be even hotter.'
' Hugo demonstrated the effect of warm Atlantic waters when its winds jumped from 105 mph to 135 mph as it passed over the Gulf Stream before hitting the East Coast, Schneider said.'
" ``You'll get worse hurricanes if the Caribbean is warmer,'' he said."
" ``And I think there are better-than-even odds that you will have stronger hurricanes''."
" Emanuel said if the ocean temperature climbs, moderate hurricanes of the future could grow to Gilbert's strength _ and future Gilberts will be even stronger."
' Gilbert was so strong that Bob Sheets, director of the national hurricane center, said forecasters may have to use an intensity scale of 1-6 in the future, instead of the current 1-5, with five the highest.'
" The computer models Schneider uses show that in a worst-case scenario, over the next 100 years the world's temperature could jump by 10 degrees if carbon dioxide and methane gas _ which both contribute to the greenhouse effect _ continue to pour into the atmosphere unchecked."
' It is possible that even though the world as a whole heats up, the Caribbean could somehow remain cooler.'
' But he said that is unlikley.'
" ``That's not what the models are showing,'' Schneider said."
" ``And that's another reason I'd like to slow down global warming.''"
' AP890925-0054'
' AP-NR-09-25-89 0631EDT'
' r a PM-Hugo-Readiness 09-25 0321'
' PM-Hugo-Readiness,0336'
' Loss Of Life Low Because People Were Prepared'
' With PM-Hugo Bjt'
' By BRUCE SMITH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP)'
" Residents took forecasters at their word when they warned of Hurricane Hugo's fury, and the low number of deaths from the powerful storm can be credited to this healthy respect, authorities said."
" The storm, which caused billions in damage, claimed 17 lives in South Carolina, and only two were in the Charleston area, which bore the brunt of Hugo's 135 mph winds."
" ``We just feel very thankful about that,'' said Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr."
" ``Several thousands of people who were in the shelters and the tens of thousands of people who evacuated inland were potential victims of injury and death''."
' Riley and other officials credited residents with monitoring the hurricane as it spun toward Charleston, and heeding evacuation warnings.'
' The last big storm to hit South Carolina was Hurricane David in 1979, which hit the coast after pounding southern Florida.'
" Since then several big storms have threatened but veered away, and officials were worried that Charlestonians wouldn't heed Hugo's warnings."
" ``We've had so many close calls,'' said Gary Garnet, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service."
" ``But this storm was very, very strong,'' he said."
" ``This time they realized it''."
' Glen Ellis, a Red Cross official, estimated that 18,000 residents in Charleston and the three surrounding counties headed for shelters.'
' Tens of thousands more got into their cars and headed up Interstate 26 toward Columbia.'
' Mayor John Bourne of North Charleston, where there apparently were no storm-related deaths, credited people for heeding the warnings.'
" ``It was bad, but it could have been a lot worse,'' he said."
" ``You've just got to say nice things about the people''."
' Meanwhile, Garnet had some good news for storm-weary Charlestonians: late Saturday the tropics were quiet with no other storms brewing.'
" ``There's nothing to worry about out there,'' he said ."
' LA092789-0093'
' 112961'
' September 27, 1989, Wednesday, Home Edition'
' Business; Part 4; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk'
' 686 words'
' HURRICANE HUGO MAY BE MOST COSTLY STORM EVER;'
' 2 BIGGEST INSURERS IN CAROLINAS ESTIMATING LOSSES AT $600 MILLION'
' By LINDA WILLIAMS, Times Staff Writer'
' The two dominant home and automobile insurers in the Carolinas said Tuesday that they expect to be hit with about $600 million in claims from Hurricane Hugo.'
' Such heavy losses suggest that the storm will be the most expensive ever for the insurance industry .'
' State Farm Insurance Co. expects claims as high as $400 million in South Carolina, where it insures one out of every five homes, spokesman Jerry Parsons said.'
' The Bloomington, Ill.-based company is also projecting an additional $100 million in claims from storm damage in North Carolina and Virginia, he said .'
' Additionally, Nationwide Insurance Co. said it expects claims close to $100 million, more than triple the $31 million that the company paid for damages caused by Hurricane Elena when it swept through Florida, Alabama and Mississippi in 1985 .'
' "Our previous all-time high was in 1983, when we paid $165 million in comparable claims for Hurricane Alicia, which struck Galveston and Houston.'
' There were a phenomenal number of claims from that storm, but there was not the severity of damage" as in Hugo, Parsons said.'
' Officials said property damage from Hugo escalated because the storm scored a direct hit on Charleston and then, instead of heading out to sea, veered northwest, hitting other population centers, including Charlotte, N.C .'
' Losses Still Being Tallied'
' Nationwide, based in Columbus, Ohio, is the biggest home and auto insurance in North Carolina, where damage was unexpectedly high, and is the third-largest insurer in South Carolina.'
' "We have so far received 16,000 claims," spokesman Bob Sohozich said .'
' Although claims adjusters are still tallying the losses, there is now little doubt that overall damage to insured property will far exceed the record $752.5 million in claims paid by the industry after Hurricane Frederic struck Mississippi and Alabama in 1979, Parsons said .'
' The Insurance Information Institute is expected to issue a report Thursday on overall insured losses from Hugo.'
' Although the losses are substantial, they are not expected to threaten the financial health of any individual company because reinsurers will pick up a significant portion of the costs.'
' For example, Nationwide said it would be responsible for up to $30 million in claims, while its reinsurers would cover up to $150 million in damages.'
' Reinsurers  which share a portion of the risk on an insurance policy in exchange for part of the premium income  typically spread their risk over many hundreds of companies .'
' Analysts said most of the claims will be borne by mutual insurance companies, which are owned by policyholders, but they noted that losses from Hurricane Hugo would also affect the short-term earnings of some publicly traded companies .'
' Continental Corp. said it expects to report a pretax charge of $50 million for the third quarter, reflecting its net exposure to damages from the storm.'
' The New York-based company had substantial business in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, where Hugo first struck with devastating force .'
' Forecasts May Be Cut'
' The charge might push Continental into the red for the quarter, said Udayan Ghose, an analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton in New York.'
' "If there is a profit, it will be a very small one," he said.'
' The charge will cut expected annual earnings by close to 25%, he added .'
' Ghose said Shearson may also cut its third-quarter and annual earnings projections for Cigna Corp., USF&G Corp. and Lincoln National Corp., which are expected to suffer hurricane-related losses equal to about 10% of expected full-year earnings .'
' Overall 1989 catastrophic losses for the industry now total about $1.6 billion, and analysts expect Hugo to make this year the costliest.'
' But "this could be a positive for the industry," Ghose said, explaining that the industry is in the middle of a price war because it is overcapitalized.'
' Billions of dollars in losses from Hugo and other catastrophes this year would have "a significant impact on excess capital," he said, causing insurance firms to raise prices shortly .'
' "That would be good for the companies and shareholders," he said .'
' HURRICANES; STORMS  SOUTH CAROLINA; HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE; NATIONWIDE LIFE INSURANCE CO; CONTINENTAL CORP; DISASTERS; PROPERTY DAMAGE; INSURANCE CLAIMS; STORMS  NORTH CAROLINA; STATE FARM FIRE & CASUALTY CO; STORMS  PUERTO RICO; STORMS  VIRGIN ISLANDS OF THE UNITED STATES'
' WSJ890928-0084'
' = 890928'
' 890928-0084 .'
" Several Insurers' Net @ To Be Cut in Quarter @ By Hurricane Hugo @  @ A Wall Street Journal News Roundup"
' 09/28/89'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)'
' AIG STPL CI'
' INSURANCE (INS)'
' Damage from Hurricane Hugo, which stormed through the Carolinas and the Caribbean last week, will reduce third-quarter earnings for several insurers.'
' New York-based American International Group Inc. expects net losses related to Hugo to reduce pretax earnings between $35 million and $45 million.'
' Analysts said AIG has told them that it must cover the first $35 million of losses and that its reinsurance agreements will cover the bulk of the remaining damages.'
' AIG insured property in Puerto Rico, the eastern Caribbean Islands and the coastal regions of the Carolinas.'
" St. Paul Cos., based in St. Paul, Minn, said the pretax cost of Hugo shouldn't exceed $50 million."
' That amount takes into consideration what St. Paul expects to recover under its reinsurance contracts, the company said.'
" Philadelphia-based Cigna Corp. is expected to disclose Hugo's likely impact on its earnings sometime today."
" Udayan Ghose, an insurance industry analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton in New York, estimates that Cigna's third-quarter per-share earnings could be reduced by between 50 cents and 65 cents a share on an after-tax basis."
' That would wipe out 35% to 40% of his $1.40-a-share earnings estimate for the third quarter.'
" State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. said its State Fire & Casualty Co. unit estimates claim payments from Hugo will exceed $400 million in South Carolina alone, far surpassing the company's record payout for a single disaster."
' When damages in North Carolina and Virginia are added, the company said, the payments will exceed $500 million.'
' It said that is more than three times the previous record of $165 million set by Hurricane Alicia, which hit the Houston-Galveston, Texas, area in 1983 .'
