' AP900801-0004'
' AP-NR-08-01-90 2330EDT'
' b w AM-IraqOffensive 1stLd-Writethru 08-01 0344'
' AM-Iraq Offensive, 1st Ld-Writethru,a0825,300'
' Kuwait Claims Iraqi Invasion'
" EDs: SUBS 4th graf: ``Earlier in,'' to name ambassador; INSERTS 7th graf: ``The United,'' to note joint USA-UAE exercises"
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
' Iraqi troops have launched an offensive against Kuwait, the Kuwaiti embassy said Wednesday night.'
" Faleh Bader, director of the ambassador's office, said, ``We confirm there is an offensive at Kuwait border and we have no comment''."
' The attack started about midnight, Kuwaiti time (5 p.m.'
' EDT), Bader said.'
' Earlier in the day, the Iraqi ambassador, Mohamed Al-Mashat, was summoned to the State Department afternoon for a meeting with Assistant Secretary John Kelly.'
' Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Kelly repeated to the Iraqi envoy the U.S. desire for a peaceful solution to the tensions with Kuwait and urged Iraq to respect to sovereignty of all nations in the region.'
' Kelly told a House subcommittee Tuesday that while the United States has no treaty obligations that would mandate military support for Kuwait, the United States does believe strongly in respect for territories of all states in the region.'
' The United States, whose Persian Gulf naval patrols helped Iraq defeat Iran in the 1980-1988 war, has six warships in the area.'
' They have been conducting exercises since July 23 with forces of the United Arab Emirates, some 700 miles southest of Kuwait.'
" Iraq had moved about 100,000 troops to its border with Kuwait after claiming that Kuwait's production of oil beyond quotas of the OPEC cartel had depressed the world price, thus diminishing Iraq's revenue, and that Kuwait had been stealing oil from a field that straddles the border."
' Iraqi officials on Wednesday walked out on talks in Jiddah, Saudia Arabia aimed at resolving the 2-week-old crisis with neighboring Kuwait and complained that Kuwait was not negotiating seriously.'
' Iraq threatened to invade once before, in 1961 after Britain ended its protectorate over Kuwait.'
' Iraq then claimed Kuwait as part of its territory, but the appearance on the Kuwaiti side of the border of troops from Britain and other Arab states deterred further action by Iraq .'
' AP900802-0057'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 0406EDT'
' b i AM-Kuwait 10thLd-Writethru a0480 08-02 1029'
' AM-Kuwait, 10th Ld-Writethru, a0480,1067'
" Iraq Invades Kuwait, Says Kuwaiti Gov't Has Been Overthrown"
" Eds: UPDATES thruout with emir's palace taken, country being ravaged, American Embassy surrounded, British Embassy shelled."
' No pickup .'
' KUWAIT (AP)'
" Tank-led Iraqi troops invaded Kuwait before dawn Thursday, seizing the ruler's palace and other government buildings, Kuwaiti officials reported."
' , The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein said the Kuwaiti government had been overthrown.'
" The invasion comes nearly two weeks after Iraq massed troops on Kuwait's border in a dispute over an oilfield and Kuwait's violation of OPEC oil production quotas, which had kept down the price of crude."
" ``The Iraqis have occupied all of Kuwait''! one Kuwaiti official shouted in a telephone interview."
" ``They have seized all administrative buildings, including the information ministry which houses the (state-run) radio and television stations,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity."
' Diplomats said about 350 Iraqi tanks wheeled into the capital a few hours after crossing the border 40 miles away before dawn.'
' The invaders, whose forces far outnumber those of smaller Kuwait, were led by the elite Republican Guard that did the brunt of the fighting in the 1980-88 war with Iran.'
' The troops set up roadblocks at major intersections in the capital.'
' The invaders surrounded the palace of the ruler of Kuwait, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah, the official said.'
" Residents in the palace's vicinity said it was seized after two hours of heavy artillery barrages."
' The whereabouts of the emir, whose family has ruled the city-state for almost 250 years, was not immediately known.'
' The bombardment of ports and airports was vicious, eyewitnesses said.'
' Thousands of residents attempted to flee south toward Saudi Arabia in their cars.'
" Kuwait's official radio broadcast a desperate plea for help from other Arab nations."
' The Kuwaiti Embassy in Washington reported only that there were many casualties in the fighting, which follows a flareup in a protracted dispute over a border oil field, but gave no numbers early Thursday.'
" Residents said there were about 50 tanks around the emir's palace and the neighboring U.S."
' Embassy. The embassy did no answer its telephones.'
' The British Embassy was hit by shellfire and the Sheraton and Hilton hotels evacuated their clientele, sources said.'
' The air space over Kuwait was closed, with airliners turned away.'
" The Bush administration demanded immediate withdrawal of the Iraqi forces and added that it was ``reviewing all options in its response to the Iraqi aggression''."
" U.S. warships have been on ``short-term'' alert 600 miles southeast of the Iraq-Kuwait border since July 24 because of the tensions in the oil-rich Persian Gulf region, scene of heavy fighting in the Iran-Iraq war."
' The White House said it had no reports of harm to Americans.'
' The United States has extensive business ties to Kuwait, and the U.S. community in the nation _ slightly smaller than New Jersey _ is sizeable, in the thousands.'
' The White House denounced the incursion, issuing a statement that said, ``The United States strongly condemns the Iraqi military invasion of Kuwait ...'
' ``We have conveyed this message to the Iraqi ambassador in Washington and to the Iraqi government through our embassy in Baghdad.'
" ``We deplore this blatant use of military aggression in violation of the U.N. charter''."
' In New York, U.N. officials said the Security Council was to begin an emergency meeting early Thursday.'
' Reaction was swift elsewhere.'
" The British government said the ``armed incursion is clearly a grave threat to peace and stability in the area and of immediate concern to the international community as a whole''."
' The Iraqi action was expected to dominate talks between President Bush and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher when they meet later Thursday in Aspen, Colo. Iraqi officials on Wednesday had abruptly walked out on talks in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, complaining that the Kuwaiti representatives were not negotiating seriously.'
' President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt had intervened beginning July 25 to set up the talks in a bid to cool tensions between the two OPEC members.'
" In Baghdad, Saddam's government announced Thursday that the Kuwaiti government had been toppled."
' Kuwait radio went off the air briefly, but came back on different wavelenghs with martial music and Kuwaiti patriotic songs.'
" Saddam's ruling council issued a statement from Baghdad saying an interim government had been established in Kuwait but the claim could not be immediately and independently confirmed."
" ``Iraq has responded to the request from interim government of free Kuwait and decided to cooperate with it,'' the Iraqi statement said."
' It said the troops _ no numbers were given _ were in Kuwait to defend the revolution and the Kuwaiti people.'
' There was no further identification of the revolutionary government.'
' Iraq warned too that any foreign troops trying to interfere with its actions would be attacked.'
" More than 60 percent of the country's 1.8 million residents are foreigners."
' Kuwaiti forces had engaged the Iraqi invaders with heavy artillery in a failed attempt to repulse them, government officials contacted by telephone earlier Thursday said.'
' Iraqi, which is the size of California, has an estimated 1 million troops among its 17 million populace, compared to 20,300 members of the Kuwait armed forces.'
" In Baghdad, the official radio interspersed martial music with songs with slogans like, ``Greetings to the Revolution in Kuwait''."
' The invasion followed massive troop movements to the south on Wednesday.'
' In Kuwait early Thursday, the rattle of automatic guns sounded and explosions in rapid succession shook local residents from their sleep and the Kuwaiti Cabinet quickly assembled.'
' Residents in downtown Kuwait reported formations of French-made Mirage jet fighters of the Kuwaiti air force taking to the skies in the direction of the border region.'
' The streets were empty; some people on rooftops of their houses reported hearing gunblasts growing in intensity and speed.'
' Moments later army tanks and armored personnel carriers were moving in the direction of the Royal Palace, apparently to reinforce the guards.'
' Kuwait is a former British protectorate that gained independence in 1961.'
" Its residents are among the wealthiest in the world because of the country's vast oil reserves."
" In Tokyo, the dollar moved sharply higher along with oil prices during morning trading Thursday on news of Iraq's invasion ."
' AP900802-0077'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 0708EDT'
' u i PM-Iraq-Kuwait 3rdLd-Writethru 1stAdd 08-02 0658'
' PM-Iraq-Kuwait, 3rd Ld-Writethru, 1st Add, a0544,0675'
' KUWAIT: in Kuwait .'
' The British Embassy was hit by shellfire and the Sheraton and Hilton hotels evacuated their clientele, sources said.'
" Swiss charge d'affaires Franco Bessoni said on French radio that the palace was taken after bombardment by Iraqi MiG jet fighters."
' ``You can see black smoke over there ....'
' No one dares to go out.'
' You can hear gunfire.'
" The entire foreign community is staying indoors,'' he said."
" ``It's chaos, military jets are flying over all the time, Kathy McGregor, a Canadian, said by telephone at about midday."
' She said she could still hear artillery fire.'
' The air space over Kuwait was closed, with airliners turned away.'
' Iraq also sealed its own borders and airspace.'
" Iraq said in a statement that it had ``responded to the request from interim government of free Kuwait and decided to cooperate with it''."
' It said its troops _ no numbers were given _ were in Kuwait to defend the revolution and the Kuwaiti people.'
' There was no further identification of the revolutionary government.'
" Saddam's ruling council also warned that any foreign troops trying to interfere with its actions would be attacked."
' Kuwaiti forces had engaged the Iraqi invaders with heavy artillery in their failed attempt to repulse them, Kuwaiti officials said earlier.'
' The invaders were led by the elite Republican Guard that did the brunt of the fighting in the 1980-88 war with Iran.'
' Iraq has an estimated 1 million troops _ including reservists _ among its 16 million people, compared to 20,300 troops in Kuwait.'
' Iraqi radio said 15 army divisions were being recalled and ordered all men born between 1960 and 1966 to report to the army within three days.'
" Today's fighting quickly sent oil prices surging in international markets."
" The price of North Sea Brent crude for September delivery was quoted early today at $22.30 a barrel against Wednesday's London close of $20.40."
" Iraq, the world's second-largest oil producer, had demanded higher oil prices at last month's OPEC oil cartel meeting in Geneva."
' Saddam had threatened military action against Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates for exceeding their cartel production quotas and driving crude prices down.'
' OPEC agreed to cut output to boost prices.'
' The invasion came a day after talks between Kuwait and Iraq collapsed in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia.'
' Kuwait had apparently refused to bend to Iraqi demands.'
" The crisis began July 17 when Saddam accused Kuwait of trying to wreck the debt-ridden Iraqi economy with oil overproduction and began massing troops on Kuwait's border."
' He also accused Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion in oil drilled from the border oil field, Rumailah.'
" Iraq also demanded the Kuwaiti island of Bubiyan, which is opposite Iraq's only outlets to the Persian Gulf."
' Iraq, which reportedly massed about 100,000 troops at the border on Wednesday, has been engaged in a major defense buildup since Saddam came to power in 1979.'
' But the Iran-Iraq war left it with a foreign debt of about $70 billion.'
' Iraq borrowed $10 billion to $20 billion from Kuwait wants that debt forgiven.'
' In Kuwait early today, the rattle of automatic guns sounded and explosions in rapid succession shook residents from their sleep and the Kuwaiti Cabinet quickly assembled.'
' The Cabinet was holed up at the headquarters of the Supreme Defense Council with telephone and telex links cut off, said official sources.'
' Kuwaiti radio briefly stopped broadcasting, then went back on the air on a different wavelength.'
' A speaker believed to be Crown Prince and Prime Minister Sheik Saad al-Abdullah al-Sabah appealed for Arab support.'
" ``Oh Arabs, Kuwait's blood and honor is being violated, rush to its rescue ..."
" the children, the women, the old men of Kuwait are calling on you,'' the speaker said."
' Kuwait, nearly the size of New Jersey, is a former British protectorate that gained independence in 1961.'
" Its residents are among the wealthiest in the world because of the country's vast oil reserves ."
' AP900802-0135'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 1504EDT'
' u i PM-Iraq-Kuwait 10thLd-Writethru 08-02 1032'
' PM-Iraq-Kuwait, 10th Ld-Writethru,a0684-71,1068'
' URGENT'
' Iraq Invades Kuwait; U.S.'
' Responds With Sanctions'
" Eds: Inserts 1 graf after 12th, `A Pentagon'... to UPDATE with Baker to fly to Moscow for joint statement, sub 20th, `Egypt's Middle'... to UPDATE with diplomats confirming death."
' Pickup 1st graf of a0571, `Kuwait radio.. .'
' LaserPhotos NY4,5,6,8; LaserGraphics'
' By STEPHANIE McGEHEE'
' KUWAIT (AP)'
" Iraq's powerful army invaded this small oil-rich kingdom early today."
" Tank-led troops quickly seized the ruler's palace and government buildings, and the emir fled to Saudi Arabia, Kuwaiti officials said."
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the Iraqis occupied all government buildings in the capital and were moving south toward the country's oil facilities."
' He appealed for U.S. military intervention.'
' A Pentagon source said U.S.'
' Navy ships were diverted to the region, but President Bush said the subject of intervention was not being discussed.'
" ``The Iraqis have occupied all of Kuwait''! a Kuwaiti government official shouted in a telephone interview."
' Diplomatic sources in the Persian Gulf estimated that more than 200 Kuwaitis were killed or wounded.'
" The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein claimed it invaded at the request of revolutionaries who had already staged a coup and established ``The Provisional Government of Free Kuwait''."
' Kuwait and U.N. diplomats labeled the coup report a farce.'
' The assault followed two weeks of tension between Kuwait and Iraq, caused by Iraqi accusations that Kuwait stole oil from a disputed border area.'
' Saddam also accused Kuwait of exceeding OPEC production quotas, thus driving down the price of oil, a major Iraqi revenue source.'
' The attack had wide-ranging ramifications: _Oil prices soared $3 a barrel in early trading because of fears the invasion would disrupt supplies.'
' Prices were about $2 higher later.'
' _President Bush signed orders freezing Iraqi assets in the United States and blocking most Iraqi imports, including oil.'
' Oil accounts for 97 percent of Iraqi imports to the United States and makes up about 3.5 percent of U.S. oil consumption.'
' Bush also froze Kuwaiti assets to prevent Iraq from seizing them.'
" _The Soviet Union, Iraq's main arms supplier, halted weapons sales."
' _The U.N.'
' Security Council voted 14-0 to denounce the invasion and demanded immediate withdrawal of Iraqi troops.'
' _A Pentagon source said the aircraft carrier USS Independence, escorted by a six-ship battle group, was diverted from the Indian Ocean toward the gulf, where other U.S. ships were already patrolling.'
' _Secretary of State James A. Baker III planned to fly to Moscow to issue a rare joint statement Friday with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze about the invasion.'
' The plan, which was announced in Washington, illustrates the dramatic improvement in relations between the superpowers, who once routinely lined up on opposite sides of most regional disputes.'
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador, Sheik Saud Nasir al-Sabah, told reporters in Washington: ``We are desperate for any help we can get''."
' He appealed specifically for American intervention.'
' In recent days, diplomats said Iraq had massed more than 100,000 troops at the border.'
" Kuwait's entire armed forces has 20,300 soldiers."
" Bush said the United States would ``take whatever steps necessary'' to defend interests in the gulf."
" Asked if this included military force, Bush said: ``We're not discussing intervention''."
' But he said he would not discuss military options publicly.'
' It was the first time in modern history an Arab nation had invaded another and taken over its government.'
" Kuwait's army was no match for Iraq, battle-hardened after eight years of war with Iran."
" Iraq has emerged as the Arab world's strongest and most militant military power, and Saddam has a vast arsenal of chemical and conventional weapons."
' Diplomats said about 350 Iraqi tanks wheeled into the capital a few hours after crossing the border 40 miles away at dawn.'
' Witnesses said the bombardment of ports and military airports by artillery and the air force was vicious.'
" The invaders surrounded the palace of Kuwait's ruler, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah."
' Residents said the palace was seized after about two hours of heavy artillery barrages.'
" Diplomats said Sheik Fahd al-Ahmed al-Sabah, one of the emir's brothers, was killed while trying to defend the palace."
' There were about 50 tanks around the palace and the neighboring American Embassy, residents said.'
' The al-Sabah family has ruled the city-state for almost 250 years.'
' The Kuwaiti ambassador said the leaders were safe in Saudi Arabia.'
" Operating from an unknown location, al-Ahmed's government responded to the formation of the provisional government by stating: ``Kuwait is Kuwait to its people, let by the emir, Sheik Jaber, and his Crown Prince Sheik Saad."
" God preserve them from all harm''."
" For its part, the provisional government announced through Baghdad's official Iraqi News Agency that it was dissolving parliament and would hold ``free and honest elections'' at a future date."
' The Iraqi forces were led by the elite Republican Guard, which did the brunt of fighting in the Iran-Iraq war.'
' Troops set up roadblocks at major intersections and shot at cars that did not stop.'
' Baghdad television said Iraq qould withdraw its forces within days or weeks, depending on how quickly the situation stabilized.'
" Kuwait's land and sea borders were closed, as was the airport."
' Diplomats said the invasion was too swift to arrange the evacuation of nationals, and foreigners were asked to keep a low profile.'
' There are about 4,000 Americans among the large expatriate community in Kuwait, where more than 60 percent of the 1.8 million residents are foreigners.'
' U.S. officials monitoring the situation had no reports of harm to U.S. citizens in Iraq, White House spokesman Roman Popadiuk said.'
' Foreigners reached by telephone said they watched from their windows or dived for cover as the invasion began.'
" ``We were totally unprepared,'' said Catherine Baker of Illinois."
" ``One feels like there should have been a bit of warning''."
' The British Embassy was hit by shell-fire and the Sheraton and Hilton hotels evacuated their clientele, the diplomats said.'
' The invasion came hours after Iraq broke off talks intended to mend its differences with Kuwait.'
' Iraqi first threatened military action against its former ally Kuwait two weeks ago.'
' Washington declared its support for Kuwait from the start.'
' During the Iran-Iraq war, American ships protected U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tankers from attacks in the gulf .'
' Kuwait radio, 1st graf, a0571'
' AP900803-0004'
' AP-NR-08-03-90 0819EDT'
' r i PM-Iraq-Analysis 08-03 0895'
' PM-Iraq-Analysis,0923'
' Saddam Grabs Kuwait to Fulfill Territorial, Financial Ambitions'
' Eds: Also in Friday AMs report .'
' With PM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' LaserPhotos NY4, LON2 of Aug. 2'
' An AP News Analysis'
' By NEIL MacFARQUHAR'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP)'
' Iraqi President Saddam Hussein seemed determined to solve his financial problems and fulfill territorial ambitions by dethroning the government of neighboring Kuwait.'
' The invasion, unprecedented in modern Arab history, reflected the brutality Saddam has used to crush all opposition at home since coming to power in 1979.'
" The sentence for criticizing Saddam is death, and the president considered Kuwait's oil overproduction and the subsequent fall in the price of oil a personal affront to Iraq."
' ``Iraqis will not forget the saying that cutting necks is better than cutting means of living.'
" Oh God Almighty, be witness that we have warned them,'' he said last month after prices tumbled below $14 per barrel."
' He accused Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of costing Iraq $14 billion in lost oil revenue by ignoring their quotas assigned by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.'
' He also accused Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion by pumping oil from a disputed field that straddled their border, and demanded that Kuwait write off an estimated $15 billion it loaned Iraq during the Persian Gulf war.'
' Saddam was reported to be incensed that Kuwait was demanding repayment for the wartime loans.'
' Saddam said he fought the war to protect the Arabs from the fundamentalist revolution fomented by the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in Persian, mainly Shiite Moslem Iran.'
" Never mind that Iraq started the war in 1980 by invading Iran after a series of border skirmishes along the Shatt-al-Arab waterway, Iraq's only outlet to the Gulf."
" Despite claims that the war was an unprecedented victory, the long conflict stalled Iraq's development, dragging on for eight years."
' It has still not formally ended.'
' The war bills kept the government from delivering material benefits promised to the Iraqi people directly after the war.'
' The 1990 budget slashed funds for imports and Iraqis were told to brace for another year of austerity.'
' Private investment has failed to take hold.'
' Iraq ended the war an estimated $70 billion in debt.'
' Its main gulf port of Basra is still blocked and its oil infrastructure damaged.'
' Tens of thousands of Iraqi prisoners of war languish in Iranian prisons and an estimated 500,000 Iraqis were killed or wounded.'
" Despite its puny size, Kuwait's oil reserves almost match Iraq's 100 billion barrels."
" By controlling Kuwait, Saddam could help solve the financial hangover from the Persian Gulf war and fulfill Iraq's longstanding wish for more gulf coastline."
" Iraq's 100,000 troops massed at the border in the past few weeks were believed part of a pressure campaign to make Kuwait capitulate to Iraq's demands."
" But Kuwait's pledge two weeks ago to obey new OPEC quotas and Saddam's promise to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak that he would not invade lulled the Arab world into the sense the crisis was over."
' Homage to the cause of Arab unity has been paramount in Middle East politics since postwar independence from colonial powers.'
' Although a civil war in Yemen in the 1960s brought Egyptian and Saudi Arabian intervention on opposing sides, no Arab state has ever directly deposed the government of a fellow Arab League member.'
' Despite Iraqi claims that it is helping internal opposition liberate Kuwait, it has long coveted the tiny emirate.'
' The Iraqi government refused to recognize its independence in 1961 and threatened to attack then, but backed down when Britain landed troops in Kuwait.'
" The invasion shook Kuwait's neighbors along the Gulf."
' It proved the decade-old Gulf Cooperation Council that groups Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Kuwait was toothless.'
' The GCC did not issue a statement, much less implement its mutual defense treaty.'
' While Iraq was unlikely to invade Saudi Arabia, it could use the precedent of Kuwait to browbeat its neighbors on local policy issues.'
' Bombing an oil field would be a sufficient reminder of what happened to Kuwait when it balked at Iraqi demands.'
' Also in a region entirely ruled by absolute monarchs, the fall of one makes the rest feel extremely vulnerable.'
' In a series of bellicose statements in recent months, Saddam has sought to focus domestic attention outside Iraq.'
" In March he threatened to burn half of Israel with Iraq's chemical weapons _ banned under international law _ if Iraq was attacked."
' It was a popular stance among Arabs frustrated with the lack of progress toward peace and a Palestinian nation in the Arab-Israeli conflict.'
' Then Britain arrested several people on charges they were smuggling nuclear triggers into Baghdad.'
' Weeks later, police in Europe impounded what they said was parts to a supergun capable of firing chemical or nuclear shells into Israel.'
' Saddam cried foul, claiming the West was trying to wreck the scientific progress of the Arabs.'
' Saddam has sought to inherit the mantle of the late Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nassar as the leader of the Arab world.'
" His relentless personality cult has dubbed him ``The Knight of the Arabs''."
' For Kuwait on Thursday, he was a dark knight.'
" Asked the reason for the invasion, Kuwait's ambassador to Washington Sheik Saud Nasir Al-Sabah said at a news conference: ``Ambition."
' Hegemony. Control of the whole area.'
" There is not any reason for it.''"
' AP900803-0008'
' AP-NR-08-03-90 0242EDT'
' r i PM-Iraq-KuwaitChronology 08-03 0431'
' PM-Iraq-Kuwait Chronology,0439'
' A Chronology of Key Events in the Dispute Between Iraq and Kuwait'
' With PM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By The Associated Press'
' Here is a brief chronology in the dispute between Iraq and Kuwait over oil production and their common border.'
' July 17 _ Iraqi President Saddam Hussein accuses Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of flooding the oil market and driving prices down, and that the move cost Iraq $14 billion in lost oil revenue.'
" He further charges that Arab states in the Persian Gulf are conspiring with the United States and Israel to weaken Iraq's economy and undermine its military buildup."
" July 18 _ Iraq accuses Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion worth of oil from wells along the disputed border with Iraq and of seeking to wreck Iraq's economy by overproducing oil and thus pushing down prices."
" July 20 _ Kuwaiti officials suggest Iraq's sudden outburst of belligerence is aimed at getting its creditors _ including Kuwait _ to write off billions of dollars in debts from the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war."
' July 24 _ The U.S.'
' Defense Department announces that U.S.'
" Navy warships and aircraft are holding a ``short-notice exercise'' in the Persian Gulf with the United Arab Emirates, about 600 miles southeast of the Kuwait-Iraqi border."
' Kuwait reinstates a state of alert it declared July 16 and canceled after three days of tension between the two oil-producing countries.'
' July 25 _ The Iraqi government in Baghdad says that it will not be intimidated by U.S. pressure in its oil dispute with neighboring Kuwait, and Saddams summons the U.S. ambassador for talks.'
' President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt says Iraq and Kuwait plan to meet in Saudi Arabia in an effort to resolve their dispute.'
' July 26 _ OPEC ministers in Geneva agree to halt overproduction in hopes of pushing up the price of crude oil.'
' Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates pledge to abide by the agreement.'
' Analysts say Saddam clearly influenced the outcome of the meetings.'
' July 31 _ Kuwaiti and Iraqi delegations meet in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, to negotiate the oil and border dispute.'
" Diplomats say Iraq has massed 100,000 troops on Kuwait's border, more than triple the number originally estimated."
' That number dwarfs the Kuwaiti army, which has a total of about 20,000 troops.'
' Aug. 1 _ Iraq pulls out of talks on the 2-week-old border, oil and money dispute with Kuwait shortly before it sends its forces to invade the oil-rich sheikdom.'
" Aug. 2 _ Iraq's powerful army overruns Kuwait before dawn with tank-led troops quickly seized the ruler's palace and other government buildings ."
' AP900805-0019'
' AP-NR-08-05-90 0937EDT'
' u i BC-Iraq-Kuwait 3rdLd-Writethru 08-05 0810'
' BC-Iraq-Kuwait, 3rd Ld-Writethru,a0696,0829'
' Iraqi-Installed Kuwaiti Government Says Withdrawal Under Way'
' Eds: New thruout to UPDATE comment on formerly missing Americans, reporters in Iraq brought to see returning Iraqi soldiers, Jordan refusing to back new Kuwaiti government, denial that new government contains Iraqis.'
' No pickup .'
' By SALAH NASRAWI'
' Associated Press Writer'
' BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)'
" The radio of Kuwait's new Iraqi-installed government claimed that Iraqi troops began pulling out of Kuwait on Sunday, but the United States said it doubted a withdrawal was really under way."
" The radio announcement came three days after Iraq invaded Kuwait and one day after Baghdad said it had replaced the oil-rich kingdom's ousted monarchy with a new government made up of nine Kuwaiti army offices."
' Iraq also said Saturday that it was creating a new Kuwaiti army and that 100,000 Iraqis, the approximate number of soldiers Baghdad took over Kuwait with, had volunteered for the new military force.'
' In other developments: _The White House continued to seek the immediate and unconditional withdrawl of all Iraqi troops, and it thanked the many nations who have condemned the invasion and imposed economic sanctions on Baghdad.'
' _After several days of debate, Japan on Sunday banned all oil imports from Iraq and Kuwait and halted Japanese exports to both countries.'
' Tokyo said it would suspend all loans to Iraq and Kuwait, ban Japanese investment there, and freeze Iraqi assets in Japan.'
' Japan, which imports 99 percent of its oil, had relied on Iraq and Kuwait for more than 11 percent of its oil imports.'
" The White House hailed Japan's move and said Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu called President Bush on Sunday at Camp David to inform him about the sanctions."
" _Although tens of thousands of Iraqi troops reportedly remained massed near Kuwait's border with Saudi Arabia, Washington said on Sunday there was no indication that any soldiers had moved into Saudi Arabia."
' _The White House said that 11 American oil workers rounded up after the invasion had been brought to Baghdad, talked with U.S.'
' Embassy officials, and were in good shape.'
' It said that accounts for all missing Americans.'
" _An unconfirmed report said a warplane from the deposed emir's air force in Kuwait bombed an Iraqi military headquarters near Kuwait city."
' It was not clear where the plane came from or whether its reported attack caused any damage.'
" The radio of Kuwait's new government, monitored in Bahrain, quoted its ``military correspondent'' as saying the pullout began at 8 a.m."
' (1 a.m.'
' EDT). Iraqi President Saddam Hussein allowed reporters based in Baghdad to be taken south to Basra overnight to observe the first Iraqi troops return home.'
' But at the White House, press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said on Sunday morning: ``We have no independent or confirmable information on this report (of the withdrawl beginning).'
" Saddam Hussein's actions in the past have raised serious skepticism about his intentions''."
' Iraq declared earlier that the provisional government installed by Baghdad is capable of ensuring security in the occupied country.'
' Baghdad television has said the new government is headed by Col.'
' Ala Hussein Ali and that he holds the positions of prime minister, commander-in-chief of the armed forces, minister of defense and interior minister.'
' The other eight members were lieutenant colonels and majors.'
" But Kuwait's embassy in Amman, Jordan, on Sunday dismissed the new government as ``a list of fake names'' and said Ali is Saddam's son-in-law."
" A similar report appeared in one of Cairo's leading newspapers, Al-Ahram."
" It quoted the Kuwait Embassy in Tunis which said that Ali works with Saddam's administration in Baghdad."
' The Iraqi news agency carried a Kuwait-datelined statement it said was from the provisional government, denying any of its members were Iraqis.'
' In Jordan, Prime Minister Mudar Badran said his nation will not recognize the new government because that would hinder Arab efforts to end the conflict.'
' U.S., French and British warships, meanwhile, steamed toward the Persian Gulf.'
' President Bush said Friday that if Iraq moved against Saudi Arabia it would be attacking U.S.'
" ``vital interests''."
' On Saturday, Bush said in Washington that the use of force in resolving the crisis remains an option.'
' Saudi Arabia ships 1.2 million barrels of oil to the United States daily.'
' Fitzwater said on Sunday that there was no indication Iraqi forces had moved into Saudi Arabia, even though tens of thousands of them have been reported to be within 5 to 10 miles of the Saudi border.'
' In Washington, Iraqi ambassador Mohammed al-Mashat on Saturday denied U.S. and other foreign reports suggesting that Iraq plans to invade Saudi Arabia.'
' Saddam ordered the invasion of Kuwait after accusing it of stealing oil from a field that straddles their disputed border.'
' He also blamed Kuwait for a fall in oil prices that cost Iraq $14 billion, saying it contributed to the oil glut by cheating on its OPEC oil cartel production quotas .'
' AP900805-0060'
' AP-NR-08-05-90 2113EDT'
' u i AM-UN-Iraq-Kuwait 3rdLd-Writethru a0792 08-05 0574'
' AM-UN-Iraq-Kuwait, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0792,0585'
' United State Pushes for Iraqi Sanctions at United Nations'
" Eds: LEADS thruout to UPDATE with U.S. ambassador's comments, comments from Britain, Cuba; DELETES outdated material thruout; no pickup"
' With AM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By VICTORIA GRAHAM'
' Associated Press Writer'
' UNITED NATIONS _ The United States urged other U.N. members at talks Sunday to impose broad economic and military sanctions on Iraq.'
' Western diplomats said the world body is expected to adopt the measures.'
' Should the U.N.'
' Security Council impose comprehensive sanctions, it would be the first time since 1967 it has taken such action against a member state.'
' The last time such sanctions were imposed was against the white minority government of Rhodesia.'
' Western diplomats said they expected up to 14 positive votes on the 15-member council for sanctions against Iraq.'
' They said they expected no vetoes, allowing the legally binding measure to be adopted, probably on Monday.'
' They said Cuba was the holdout.'
" U.S. Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering told reporters after closed-door talks Sunday that the council discussed ``the absolute necessity of moving ahead toward a broad resolution of sanctions''."
' He said he expected a vote Monday.'
' Pickering said the United States had circulated six or seven drafts of a detailed resolution.'
" It calls for an embargo on Iraq's oil exports, an embargo on imports to Iraq, and a halt to all arms and other military supplies for Iraq."
" British Ambassador Crispen Tickell told reporters later that he detected ``strong support, with the exception of one member, for action and a vote tomorrow''."
" Speaking of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, Canadian Ambassador L. Yves Fortier declared, ``This madman must be stopped''."
' Cuban envoy Ricardo Alarcon said Cuba would vote for sanctions against Iraq only if the council imposed sanctions on South Africa for occupying Namibia, Israel for occupying Palestinian territories and the United States for invading Panama.'
" In Kuwait, the Iraqi-installed provisional government, in a statement carried by the Iraqi News Agency, told other countries to refrain from taking ``punishing measures'' against it or Iraq."
" The provisional government said countries ``have to remember they have interests and citizens in Kuwait''."
" Kuwait's U.N. Ambassador Mohammad Abulhasan told reporters that the Iraqi-installed government was employing ``pure blackmail'' by saying it could not ensure the safety of foreigners if their governments support sanctions."
' In Aspen, Colo., British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher renewed her call for the United Nations to apply a total economic embargo against Iraq unless it withdraws immediately from Kuwait.'
" ``Iraq's invasion of Kuwait defies every principle for which the U.N. stands."
' If we let it succeed, no small country can ever feel safe again.'
" The law of the jungle takes over,'' she said, in remarks at the Aspen Institute."
' The U.N. role in the Iraq-Kuwait crisis assumed increasing importance after divided Arab nations cancelled an emergency summit on the invasion.'
" On Thursday, the Security Council condemned Iraq's invasion, demanded immediate and unconditional troop withdrawal, and threatened to impose sanctions if Iraq did not pull out."
" Sunday's session was scheduled after weekend meetings of the council's five permanent members _ the United States, the Soviet Union, China, Britain and France _ and between the United States and representatives of the Non-Aligned Movement."
' They are the nations with the power to veto proposals.'
' The United States contends that stiff sanctions by a united international front are necessary to punish Iraq and to force it to withdraw from Kuwait, which was invaded Thursday .'
' LA080290-0233'
' 256241'
' August 2, 1990, Thursday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 5; Late Final Desk'
' 537 words'
' IRAQ TRAMPLES KUWAIT;'
' TROOPS SEIZE CAPITAL, PALACE; EMIR FLEES;'
' 200 KUWAITIS SAID KILLED OR INJURED; U.S.'
' AID SOUGHT'
' From Associated Press'
' KUWAIT'
" Iraq's powerful army claimed victory today in its lightning invasion of this small, oil-rich kingdom."
" Tank-led troops quickly seized the ruler's palace and government buildings, and the emir fled to Saudi Arabia, Kuwaiti officials said ."
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the Iraqis occupied all government buildings in the capital and were moving south toward the country's oil facilities."
' He appealed for U.S. military intervention .'
' "The Iraqis have occupied all of Kuwait"! a Kuwaiti government official shouted in a telephone interview.'
' Diplomatic sources in the Persian Gulf estimated that more than 200 Kuwaitis were killed or wounded .'
' The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein claimed that it invaded at the request of revolutionaries who had already staged a coup and established "the provisional government of free Kuwait".'
' Kuwait and U.N. diplomats labeled the coup report a farce .'
' Baghdad television said Iraq could withdraw its forces within days or weeks, depending on how quickly the situation stabilized .'
' The assault followed two weeks of tension between Kuwait and Iraq, caused by Iraqi accusations that Kuwait stole oil from a disputed border area.'
' Saddam also accused Kuwait of exceeding OPEC production quotas, thus driving down the price of oil, a major Iraqi revenue source .'
' In recent days, diplomats said Iraq had massed more than 100,000 troops at the border.'
" Kuwait's entire armed forces has 20,300 soldiers ."
' It was the first time in modern history that an Arab nation had invaded another and taken over its government .'
" Kuwait's army was no match for Iraq, battle-hardened after eight years of war with Iran ."
' Diplomats said about 350 Iraqi tanks wheeled into the capital a few hours after crossing the border 40 miles away at dawn.'
' Witnesses said the bombardment of ports and military airports by artillery and the air force was vicious .'
" The invaders surrounded the palace of Kuwait's ruler, Sheik Jabbar al Ahmed al Sabah."
' Residents said the palace was seized after about two hours of heavy artillery barrages .'
" Diplomats said Sheik Fahd al Ahmed al Sabah, one of the emir's brothers, was killed while trying to defend the palace ."
' There were about 50 tanks around the palace and the neighboring American Embassy, residents said .'
' The al Sabah family has ruled the city-state for almost 250 years.'
' The Kuwaiti ambassador said the leaders were safe in Saudi Arabia .'
' Operating from an unknown location, al Ahmed\'s government responded to the formation of the provisional government by stating: "Kuwait is Kuwait to its people, led by the emir, Sheik Jabbar, and his Crown Prince Sheik Saad.'
' God preserve them from all harm" .'
' For its part, the provisional government announced through Baghdad\'s official Iraqi News Agency that it was dissolving Parliament and would hold "free and honest elections" at a future date .'
" Kuwait's land and sea borders were closed, as was the airport ."
' RELATED STORIES, PICTURES: Pages 2,3, BACK PAGE'
' Military Forces Compared:'
' Total Troops:'
' Iraq: 1,000,000'
' Kuwait: 20,300'
' Main Battle Tanks:'
' Iraq: 5,500'
' Kuwait: 275'
' Combat Aircraft:'
' Iraq: 513'
' Kuwait: 36'
' Ships:'
' Iraq: 51'
' Kuwait: 46'
' Source: International Institute for Strategic Studies'
' Map, IRAQI INVASION OF KUWAIT: Iraqi troops and tanks swept into Kuwait late Wednesday night and within hours had taken control of Kuwait City, the capital and only sizable town.'
' AP / Los Angeles Times'
' Wire'
' LA080390-0085'
' 256481'
' August 3, 1990, Friday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk'
' 1276 words'
' BUSH EMBARGOES TRADE AND FREEZES IRAQ ASSETS'
' By DAVID LAUTER, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' ASPEN, Colo .'
" President Bush embargoed all trade with Iraq and froze the nation's assets in the United States on Thursday while refusing to rule out the use of U.S. troops to rescue Kuwait from its Iraqi invaders ."
' The trade embargo bars imports of oil from Iraq, which account for 3% to 4% of total U.S. oil supplies, officials said.'
' The move also prohibits Iraq from buying U.S. grain and other foodstuffs, which represent the other chief element of trade between the two nations .'
' Iraq\'s "naked aggression" against Kuwait has created "an emergency in the Persian Gulf," Bush said in a speech to the Aspen Institute, a nonprofit organization that focuses on global issues.'
' The United States, he said, would insist on "immediate and unconditional withdrawal" of Iraqi troops .'
' Referring to Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, Bush declared: "We find his behavior intolerable" .'
" The trade embargo represents the strongest international response so far to Iraq's massive invasion of its small and poorly defended neighbor, but it stopped short of the military intervention requested by desperate Kuwait officials ."
' But according to Bush Administration sources, the Pentagon stepped up air patrols in the Persian Gulf and began moving warships, equipment and supplies into the area in a signal to Iraq that the United States would act to halt further aggression .'
" A second executive order signed by the President early Thursday froze Kuwait's assets in the United States, a step taken to prevent Iraq from seizing Kuwaiti property ."
' "We expect our friends to stand by us in our time of need," Kuwait\'s ambassador to the United States, Sheik Saud al Nasir al Sabah, said at a Washington news conference.'
' "I think the U.S. intervention at this stage is both paramount and important" .'
' However, Iraq\'s ambassador to Washington, Mohammed al Mashat, said Iraq had invaded Kuwait in response to a request from the nation\'s "interim free government".'
' He warned the West not to consider "any foreign interference in the current events" .'
' Iraq\'s explanation was quickly denounced by the State Department, which said Baghdad\'s claim that its troops moved into Kuwait at that country\'s request is "patent fraud" .'
' In a related development, the State Department confirmed that invading Iraqi troops had rounded up six American oil field workers near the border of Kuwait.'
' Their whereabouts is not known .'
" Despite Bush's refusal to rule out military action, it appeared an unlikely option given the strength of Iraq's military, the limited U.S. forces in the region and the opposition to U.S. intervention from other countries in the area ."
" Officials said the Bush Administration's energies are focused mainly on organizing international economic and diplomatic pressure against Iraq."
' Even so, the strongest economic weapon, an international ban on Iraqi oil exports, also appears unlikely to be employed .'
' At a joint news conference with British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who is scheduled to give a speech to the nonprofit Aspen Institute on Sunday, Bush said that Secretary of State James A. Baker III will discuss the Persian Gulf situation with Soviet officials in Moscow today .'
' In Ulan Bator, Mongolia, where Baker was on an Asian visit, a Baker spokeswoman said that the United States and the Soviet Union plan to issue a joint statement later today condemning the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait .'
' Baker will meet with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze on a brief refueling stop in Moscow.'
" The meeting was arranged after Baker met with the Soviet ambassador to Mongolia, who described the Kremlin's plans for a strong Soviet stand on the invasion ."
' Baker, at a news conference in Ulan Bator early today, said there have been no reports of U.S casualties in Kuwait and that "the integrity of foreign embassies seems to have been preserved so far" .'
' He said the estimate of the number of Iraqi troops in Kuwait varies from 50,000 to 100,000 .'
' Bush flew to Colorado after meeting early in the morning with his National Security Council to discuss the Persian Gulf situation.'
' Originally, the President had planned to spend the night in Colorado and return to Washington today.'
' Instead, he returned to Washington on Thursday night .'
' Before leaving the capital Thursday morning, Bush told reporters at the White House that he was "not contemplating" any U.S. military involvement .'
' But later in the day, at the news conference with Thatcher, Bush moved away from that pledge.'
' He said that he had met during the day with top defense advisers and "we\'re not ruling any options out" .'
' The trade embargo imposed by Bush would cut off all commerce with Iraq, except news reporting, exports of publications and shipments of emergency relief supplies of food and medicine .'
' Like Bush, Thatcher has frozen Iraqi and Kuwaiti assets, but she has not imposed a trade embargo .'
' Iraq is highly dependent on oil exports to finance its large armed forces and considerable national debt.'
' But Europe and Japan are far more dependent on Middle Eastern oil than is the United States, and an international oil embargo on Iraq would be painful for many U.S. allies .'
' At the joint news conference, Thatcher called for U.N. actions to impose additional trade sanctions against Iraq.'
' Asked about an oil embargo, however, she stopped short .'
' "We are prepared to support in the (U.N).'
' Security Council those measures which collectively we can agree to and which collectively we can make effective," she said.'
' "Those are the two tests" .'
' Bush spent the day discussing the Iraqi invasion with senior advisers and other heads of state, including the heads of Egypt, Yemen and Jordan, Arab leaders whom the President described as "friends of the United States".'
' The Arab leaders, Bush said, had appealed to him for "restraint" and "a short period of time" in which to develop an "Arab solution" .'
' Bush expressed sympathy with the Arab effort but added that "I made clear to them that it had gone beyond simply a regional dispute" .'
' Later Thursday, the White House said that Bush had spoken with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia for about 30 minutes.'
' The statement said the two leaders agreed that the invasion was "unacceptable" and "discussed possible options for dealing with the situation" .'
' At a news conference in Washington, Kuwaiti ambassador Saud appealed to the United States for military assistance.'
' "My people are suffering," Saud said, adding that Kuwait is requesting aid "from everyone who has conscience and fair play around this world" .'
' Referring to Kuwait\'s request for U.S. military intervention, he said: "We don\'t stand a chance if we don\'t get aid from our friends" .'
" Mashat, Baghdad's ambassador to the United States, said in a statement given to reporters in Washington that Iraq hoped to withdraw its forces within a few days or weeks ."
' "The events currently occurring in Kuwait are an internal affair with which Iraq has no relation," Mashat said .'
' Meanwhile, the United States asked Iraq to account for the six missing American oil company employees in Kuwait .'
' Times staff writers Maura Reynolds, Michael Ross and Don Shannon, in Washington, and Jim Mann, in Ulan Bator, Mongolia, contributed to this story .'
' More on Invasion'
' U.S. FORCES SHIFTED  U.S. warships and planes deploy quickly to the troubled area.'
' But American options are limited. A10'
' NO MAJOR IMPACT  The broad embargo that Bush imposed on Iraq is not expected to have a major impact on its economy. A11'
' AN ARAB DILEMMA  Arab ministers, in disarray, cannot agree on a response to the crisis. A12'
" MARKET POUNDED  The stock market was rocked by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait; the Dow slid 34.66. D1"
' IRAQ  FOREIGN RELATIONS  KUWAIT; MILITARY CONFRONTATIONS; UNITED STATES  TRADE  IRAQ; OIL  IRAQ; UNITED STATES  FOREIGN RELATIONS  IRAQ; EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES  FOREIGN ASSETS  IRAQ; UNITED STATES  FOREIGN ASSETS  KUWAIT; IMPOUNDMENT; PERSIAN GULF; UNITED STATES  ARMED FORCES; MILITARY MANEUVERS; UNITED STATES  FOREIGN RELATIONS  KUWAIT; AMERICANS  KUWAIT; MISSING PERSONS; THATCHER, MARGARET; ENGLAND  FOREIGN RELATIONS  KUWAIT; ENGLAND  FOREIGN RELATIONS  IRAQ; ECONOMIC SANCTIONS'
' LA080690-0111'
' 258363'
' August 6, 1990, Monday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 6; Late Final Desk'
' 502 words'
' IRAQIS SEIZE WESTERNERS;'
' HUNDREDS ROUNDED UP DURING SWEEP OF KUWAIT HOTELS;'
' U.N. COUNCIL VOTES BROAD SANCTIONS'
' From Times Wire Services'
' Iraq struck back against the West today, rounding up hundreds of foreign nationals in Kuwait, as the U.N.'
' Security Council overwhelming approved sweeping trade and military sanctions against Iraq to punish it for invading the emirate .'
' The Iraqi invaders scoured hotels looking for some of the thousands of Westerners based in Kuwait or caught by the invasion.'
' More than 1 million foreigners live and work in Kuwait .'
' Several hundred Britons, Americans and West Germans were grabbed in the hotels, and some were taken to Iraq, the West German and British foreign ministries said .'
' Britain said Baghdad had given no reason for detaining 366 people, most of them passengers from a British Airways flight stranded at Kuwait airport by the invasion .'
' The U.N. sanctions, which included a ban on oil purchases, came on a vote of 13 to 0, on the 15-member council.'
' Cuba and Yemen abstained on the resolution, which was proposed by the United States .'
" The Iraqi-installed Kuwait government had earlier warned foreign countries that they should not forget their citizens in Kuwait while heaping on economic punishments, and today's roundup appeared to be a reaction against the sanctions ."
' Iraqi troops rolled into its New Jersey-sized neighbor Thursday, conquering the capital and moving south toward the Saudi Arabian border .'
' Persian Gulf oil sources said today that they had seen Saudi troops moving north toward the Kuwaiti frontier near the oil port of Khafji, but the Saudis denied that they had sent reinforcements to the border .'
' Iraqi authorities today told Turkey\'s state-run pipeline company that one of the twin pipelines that carry Baghdad\'s oil through Turkey will be closed "for reasons of marketing," officials said .'
" World oil prices soared to their highest level in more than four years today as more countries joined the attempt to strangle Baghdad's economy and force it to withdraw its invasion troops ."
" Iraq's oil revenues totaled more than $11 billion last year."
' It has been pressing for higher oil prices to rebuild an economy damaged by the 1980-88 war with Iran and settle foreign debts of up to $80 billion .'
' One of the reasons Iraq gave for invading Kuwait was Kuwaiti reluctance to slow its flow of oil and push oil prices higher, but it was Iraqi oil that had slowed today .'
' "There are very few tankers loading Iraqi oil at Yumurtalik," a senior Turkish government official said, referring to the export jetties on the Turkish side of the Mediterranean Sea .'
' In Baghdad, President Saddam Hussein ordered drills for millions of people in case mass evacuations were needed .'
" He warned his nation's 17 million people to be on alert for possible U.S. or Israeli attacks."
' The United States has warned Iraq against any attack on Saudi Arabia, and President Bush has said all options are open for the United States .'
' Hundreds of Kuwaitis took to the desert to flee into Saudi Arabia, their children and a few belongings crammed into four-wheel-drive vehicles .'
' RELATED STORIES: Pages 2,3'
' Wire'
