' AP880228-0013'
' AP-NR-02-28-88 0009EST'
' u i AM-OlympicsNewspage 02-28 0387'
' AM-Olympics Newspage,0398'
' Debi Thomas A Disappointing Third In Figure Skating'
' CALGARY, Alberta (AP)'
" Debi Thomas' dream of Olympic gold turned into disappointment Saturday as East Germany's Katarina Witt won her second straight Olympic championship and Canadian Elizabeth Manley took home the silver before a crowd of cheering countrymen."
" ``It's over."
" Back to school,'' said Thomas, who won the bronze medal despite three faulty landings."
" ``I'm not going to make any excuses."
' I was really skating well this week.'
" It wasn't supposed to happen, I guess."
" But I tried''."
" While the top two skaters in the world staged a shootout to music from Bizet's ``Carmen,'' Manley was so sensational in the freestyle that she finished first with seven judges."
' Combined with a fourth in the compulsory figures and a third-place finish in the short program earlier in the week, the performance put Manley in second place.'
" Witt, a three-time world champion from East Germany, became the first repeat singles champion since Dick Button took Olympic gold in 1948 and '52."
' Sonja Henie of Norway was the only woman to do it before Witt, winning in 1928, 1932 and 1936.'
' Thomas, of San Jose, Calif., the first black to win a U.S. figure skating crown and the 1986 world champion, skated poorly Saturday after doing well earlier in the Games.'
' By contrast, Manley had the sellout crowd at the Olympic Saddledome enraptured.'
' They cheered, hooted and stamped their feet when she finished hitting every element of her program.'
' Jill Trenary of Minnetonka, Minn., finished fourth.'
' She was fifth heading into the long program, worth 50 percent of the overall score.'
" Thomas' bronze was the third figure skating medal here for the United States."
" Brian Boitano won the men's crown, and a bronze in pairs went to Jill Watson and Peter Oppegard."
' In addition to the three figure skating medals, the U.S. team had three speed-skating medals: one each gold, silver and bronze.'
" Speed skater Bonnie Blair, America's only double medalist, tried again Saturday in the 1,500 meters but finished fourth, well off the pace."
' She won the gold in the 500 and the bronze in the 1,000 meters.'
' As the Olympics winded up its next-to-last day, the Soviet Union had 27 medals, including 11 golds, while East Germany in second place had 22, including nine golds .'
' AP880228-0097'
' AP-NR-02-28-88 2231EST'
' r i AM-OlympicsNewspage 02-28 0368'
' AM-Olympics Newspage,0376'
" America's Showing Worst In 52 Years"
' CALGARY, Alberta (AP)'
' Time ran out for the U.S. athletes when the Winter Olympics ended Sunday, with a team headed by Brent Rushlaw a tick away from a U.S. bobsled medal and Dutch speed skater Yvonne van Gennip a triple gold medalist with time to spare.'
' The best America could do was six medals, its worst Winter Games showing in 52 years.'
' Two of the six were gold medals, won by Brian Boitano in figure skating and Bonnie Blair in speed skating.'
" Blair also won a bronze in speed skating, making her America's only double winner."
' The Olympics wrapped up Sunday evening with a rousing closing ceremony before 60,000 people in McMahon Stadium.'
" The 250 figure skaters who performed included past and present medal winners as well as young skaters from Albertville, France, site of the 1992 Winter Games, and Seoul, South Korea, site of this year's summer Games."
" Athletes marched in carrying miniature Olympic torches, and banners reading ``Until We Meet Again'' in eight languages were draped along the top of the stands."
' Earlier Sunday, Rushlaw and his three team members missed winning the first U.S. bobsled medal in 32 years when they was beaten by .02 seconds for the bronze.'
' Van Gennip took more than six seconds off her own world record in the 5,000 meters to win her third gold medal.'
' American Mary Docter was 22.87 seconds behind.'
' East Germans finished 2-3 in the race.'
' Finland won the hockey silver medal, handing the Soviets their first loss of the Games, 2-1.'
' The Soviets clinched the gold medal Friday night, and America finished seventh for the second straight time.'
' In 1936, America won just four medals, but only 51 were available then.'
' This time, 138 medals were handed out.'
' The Soviets finished first in both number of gold medals, with 11, and total medals, with 29, a record for the Winter Olympics.'
" East Germany's athletes won nine golds, 25 overall; while Switzerland's team came in third in both gold medals, five, and overall medals, 15."
' Four other teams also bested the United States in terms of overall medals: Austria, West Germany, Finland and the Netherlands .'
' AP880929-0042'
' AP-NR-09-29-88 0336EDT'
' u i BC-Olympics-Newspage 09-29 0241'
' BC-Olympics-Newspage,0248'
' Flo Jo Sets Two World Records'
' Eds: No PMs separate planned .'
' LaserPhoto OLY178'
' SEOUL, South Korea (AP)'
' Florence Griffith Joyner twice smashed a world record Thursday as she blazed to a gold medal in the 200-meter sprint.'
' She also stayed on target to become the second woman to win four track and field gold medals in a single Olympics.'
' Griffith Joyner dashed to her second gold in 21.34 seconds, shattering the world mark she had set just 90 minutes earlier in her semifinal heat.'
' In that race, she ran 21.56, eclipsing the 9-year-old mark of 21.71 set in 1979 by Marita Koch of East Germany and equaled three times since.'
' In her 200 quarterfinal heat Wednesday, Griffith Joyner ran an Olympic record 21.76 seconds.'
' Griffith Joyner, who set an Olympic record Sunday in winning the 100 meters, had a big lead Thursday as she turned the curve for the final 100 meters.'
' She glided to the wire.'
" ``I know I can run much faster,'' she said."
' ``I felt very relaxed.'
" That's the key''."
' Griffith Joyner, 28, is scheduled to run in the 400-meter relay Saturday and may compete in the 1,600-meter relay that day.'
' Noted for her long, painted fingernails and racy, colorful bodysuits, Griffith Joyner of Los Angeles has a chance to match the 1984 quadruple gold medal performance of U.S. sprinter and long jumper Carl Lewis, and by Fanny Blankers-Koen of the Netherlands in 1948 .'
' AP881002-0048'
' AP-NR-10-02-88 1459EDT'
' u a AM-OlympicsWrap Bjt 10-02 0815'
' AM-Olympics Wrap, Bjt,0839'
' Olympics Conclude Peacefully, With Many Heroes And A Few Sorrows'
' LaserPhotos OLY152, 154, 179, 180, 181, LaserColor OLY162'
' By The Associated Press'
' SEOUL, South Korea (AP)'
' The 1988 Summer Olympics, kept free of terrorism but tainted by drug scandals, closed Sunday with the pealing of a medieval bell to symbolize the sorrow of parting.'
' The United States finished third in medals.'
' The 1,000-year-old, 72-ton Emille Bell, which according to Korean legend has the saddest tone of any in the world, tolled farewell to the more than 9,000 athletes from 160 nations who participated in the 24th Olympiad.'
" The 16-day event, conducted under extraordinary security, wrapped up with the Soviet Union winning the lion's share of the 237 medals events."
' The Soviets took home 132 medals, including 55 gold, the most ever in a Summer Olympics without a major-power boycott.'
' East Germany had 102 medals and 37 gold, and the United States 94 medals and 36 gold.'
' Many felt that the United States was robbed of a second-place tie for golds when judges awarded a bout to a South Korean boxer over American Roy Jones in the 156-pound event on the final day of competition.'
" Because of boycotts in 1980 and 1984, the Games were the first meeting between the Soviet Union and the United States since 1976 in Montreal, and matchups between the two nations provided some of the Games' highlights."
" The U.S. men's volleyball team beat the Soviets to defend its 1984 Olympic championship, providing consolation for America's upset in the men's basketball quarterfinals."
" America also defeated the Soviets in women's basketball and men's water polo."
' At least 1 billion people watched the Olympics via a 115-nation, worldwide TV hookup.'
' The Seoul Games had the greatest number of athletes (9,633), the most countries, the most gold medals and the most venues (34).'
' Communist North Korea, which demanded a role in the Games, boycotted them, but the only sports power to follow suit was Cuba.'
' Among the highlights: _Greg Louganis won the Olympic Spirit Award as top American athlete Sunday for winning gold medals in platform and 3-meter springboard diving.'
' He accomplished the same feat in 1980 and became the first man to sweep the events twice.'
' The 28-year-old Louganis, who hit his head on the board in the preliminaries and received five stitches, announced his retirement from diving and said he wanted to pursue acting.'
' _Sisters-in-law Florence Griffith Joyner and Jackie Joyner-Kersee led an American assault on the record books in track and field.'
' Griffith Joyner won golds in the 100, the 200 and the 400-meter relay, and silver in the 1,600-meter relay.'
' She set a world record in the 200 and an Olympic record in the 100.'
' Joyner-Kersee won two golds, taking the heptathlon with a world record 7,291 points and the long jump with an Olympic mark of 24 feet, 3 inches.'
' _Kristin Otto of East Germany won six golds in swimming.'
' American swimmer Matt Biondi won seven medals, five gold, while Janet Evans earned three golds in the pool for the United States.'
" _Daniela Silivas of Romania dominated women's gymnastics, winning three golds, two silvers and a bronze."
" _West German Steffi Graf completed tennis's first Golden Slam, winning the gold medal as well as all four Grand Slam tournaments _ Wimbledon and the U.S., French and Australian Opens _ in a calendar year."
' There were low moments as well.'
" Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson, the most prominent of 10 athletes who tested positive for drugs, was stripped of his gold medal in the 100 meters and title of world's fastest man, and flew home in disgrace, his career in jeopardy."
' He was accused of using muscle-building steroids.'
' Four other medals _ two Bulgarian weightlifting golds, a Hungarian weightlifing silver and a British judo bronze _ also were stripped for drugs, and five non-medalists tested positive for substances ranging from caffeine to diuretics.'
' Early in the Games, five people connected to the Korean boxing team were suspended for attacking a New Zealand referee after a Korean lost a decision to a Bulgarian.'
' Another Korean boxer staged a 67-minute sit-in in the ring to protest his loss.'
' Anthony Hembrick, a U.S. boxer expected to win a gold, never got to fight; his coach misread the schedule and he missed the bus to the arena.'
" Two gold medal-winning U.S. swimmers were arrested for carrying a stone lion's head out of a hotel bar, but charges were dropped."
' American runner Johnny Gray kicked a taxicab in an argument with its driver.'
' He was arrested and released.'
' Security measures against the possibility of terrorism were extraordinary, including metal detectors, numerous checkpoints and ID cards, but except for scattered protests by student radicals, the Games proceeded without incident.'
' At the closing ceremonies, before the great torch was extinguished, Korea passed the Olympic flag to representatives from Barcelona, site of the 1992 Games .'
' AP881003-0066'
' AP-NR-10-03-88 0522EDT'
' u i PM-OlympicsWrap Bjt 10-03 0722'
' PM-Olympics Wrap, Bjt,0740'
' Fans, Athletes Take Away Memories, Medals As Summer Olympics End In Seoul'
' Eds: RETRANSMITTING a0501 to restore logo .'
' By STEVE WILSTEIN'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SEOUL, South Korea (AP)'
' The Summer Olympics will be remembered for moments of glory like that enjoyed by U.S. diver Greg Louganis and the startling moment of disgrace when the gold was stripped from Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson.'
' The Soviet Union won the first U.S.-Soviet Olympic medal contest since 1976, getting 55 gold medals to 37 for East Germany and 36 for the United States.'
' Host South Korea rose to fourth in the world with 12 golds.'
' The fear of terrorism and massive civil unrest prompted extraordinary security, but neither bogey materialized as nearly 10,000 athletes from 160 countries tested their mettle in 16 days of competition ended Sunday.'
' As always, there were shining moments of glory, from an opening ceremony with exotic dancers and parachutists to a closing with hugs and tears, fireworks and dances, and the mascots of Seoul and Barcelona, the site of the 1992 Games, floating together into the starry night.'
' Louganis claimed his second pair of gold medals after hitting his head on a springboard.'
' He said he talked with his coach about quitting the Olympics after hitting the board and opening a cut that needed five stitches to close.'
" ``We walked and discussed all the things we had gone through to get there,'' he said."
" ``I decided to stay in, and I'm glad I did''."
' Louganis said Sunday he is retiring from diving to begin an acting career.'
' What had been the highest moment of the Games _ Ben Johnson rocketing to victory over U.S. great Carl Lewis in a 100-meter dash world record _ led to the deepest pain when the Canadian was caught cheating with muscle-building anabolic steroids.'
" Twenty years from now, when most of the records set in Seoul are broken, the impact of Johnson's disgrace will still be felt if athletes and trainers heed the events here and end doping."
" ``There have been high points and some low points, and the most important low point was Ben Johnson,'' Juan Antonio Samaranch, president of the International Olympic Committee, said today."
" ``That was indeed a blow''."
" But catching Johnson and expelling him and nine other athletes with positive drug tests was an indication that ``we have won the battle against doping,'' Samaranch said."
' Sports officials from the United States and the Soviet Union on Sunday announced Sunday they would join forces to work towards the elimination of drugs from sport.'
' A statement issued by the U.S. and Soviet Olympic committees said the groups would investigate using the exchange of testing teams, lab results and technical data; education programs; and uniform penalties.'
' For the United States, a serious problem at the Seoul Games was a rising tide of anti-American sentiment.'
" It was exacerbated by NBC's coverage, which the Koreans saw as anti-Korean and insensitive to local culture; the arrest of several American athletes; and the perceived rudeness of the U.S. team at the opening ceremony."
' The Soviets, meanwhile, cultivated friendship by bringing in the Bolshoi Ballet, the Moscow Philharmonic, films, a photo exhibit and copies of the Communist Party newspaper Pravda.'
' The announcement of an unprecedented sports exchange program between South Korea and the Soviet Union and the arrival of the first Soviet diplomats since World War II also warmed relations.'
' Soviet athletes, as they did in Calgary, Canada, during the Winter Games, made a special effort to meet with local people.'
' American athletes tended to isolate themselves.'
' All those differences became apparent at the sporting events, where Koreans often cheered louder for the Soviets or East Germans than they did for Americans, despite a close 40-year relationship with the United States.'
' Still, there were Louganis and other Americans to unabashedly cheer for _ like sisters-in-law Florence Griffith Joyner and Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who led an assault on the track and field record books, and Louganis.'
' Griffith Joyner won golds in the 100, the 200 and the 400-meter relay, and silver in the 1,600-meter relay.'
' She set a world record in the 200 and an Olympic record in the 100.'
' Joyner-Kersee won two golds, taking the heptathlon with a world record 7,291 points and the long jump with an Olympic mark of 24 feet, 3 inches .'
' AP900328-0128'
' AP-NR-03-28-90 1820EST'
' u w AM-Bush-JesseOwens 1stLd-Writethru a0603 03-28 0477'
' AM-Bush-Jesse Owens, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0603,470'
" Eds: INSERTS 2 grafs after pvs 3rd graf bgng ``This Saturday ''... to add Bush's banquet remarks ."
' By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
" The late Jesse Owens, whose performance at the 1936 Olympics put the lie to Hitler's boasts of racial superiority, picked up a fifth gold medal Wednesday for ``humanitarian contributions in the race of life''."
' President Bush presented the Congressional Gold Medal to his widow, Ruth Owens, in a ceremony at the White House also attended by three daughters and teammates of the track legend.'
" This Saturday marks the 10th anniversary of Owens' death at age 66."
" The president later hailed Owens's multiple gold medals in the Berlin games ``a victory for humanity'' in prepared remarks to a banquet sponsored by the U.S. Olympic Committee."
" ``The Olympics, like democracy, are a kind of dialogue _ a way that nations can converse in the language of friendly competition, not deadly conflict,'' Bush said."
' Bush called Owens, who was black, an ``Olympic hero and an American hero every day of his life ...'
" born with the gift of burning speed''."
" ``He was always the fastest,'' said Bush, recalling the afternoon in May 1935 when the Ohio State runner broke three world records and tied a fourth in the space of 45 minutes."
" ``Talk about a guy in a hurry,'' Bush laughed."
" ``He was the epitome of that''."
' At the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin, Owens captured four gold medals _ in the broad jump, 100-meter dash, 200-meter dash and 400-meter relay.'
" ``The Berlin Games were to be the showcase of Hitler's theories on the superiority of the master race until this 23-year-old kid'' showed up, Bush said."
' ``It was an unrivaled athletic triumph.'
" But more than that, it really was a triumph for all humanity''."
" Bush, borrowing a phrase from Ruth Owens, said it was not those athletic feats but ``his humanitarian contributions in the race of life'' that earned Owens the Congressional Gold Medal."
" Owens devoted himself to working with youth and serving as ``a special ambassador for sports,'' said Bush."
" He said the athlete's legacy lives on through the Jesse Owens Games, a playground Olympics; the Jesse Owens International Trophy for amateur athletes and the Jesse Owens Foundation, which awards scholarships to needy youth."
" ``Despite the many honors, his greatest satisfaction came from his work with youth,'' said Mrs. Owens, 74."
" Attending the ceremony along with Owens' family were former Olympians Mal Whitfield, Harrison Dillard and Herb Douglass; former teammates John Chavers, Samuel Devine and Chester Thomas, and two Ohio Democrats, Sen. Howard Metzenbaum and Rep. Louis Stokes, who spearheaded the drive to strike the medal."
" The silver-haired Mrs. Owens, standing outside the White House afterwards, called the event ``absolutely beautiful''."
" She added: ``I'm sure with the sun shining straight down, Jesse's watching us, too.''"
' FT923-8765'
' _AN-CHLBKAEXFT'
' 920808'
" FT 08 AUG 92 / The Barcelona Olympics: Minnows vs big spenders - Tonight's athletics relay finals"
' By PETER BERLIN'
' TONIGHT in the big stadium in Barcelona the athletics is dominated by the four relay finals.'
' Tonight it is nation versus nation.'
' What the relays demonstrate more clearly than any other athletics event is that at the Olympics the race has traditionally gone to affluent countries - or to those, rather, that choose to lavish resources on athletes.'
' The US has comfortably won the most relay medals, followed by Britain, the former Soviet Union, the former West Germany (not even counting the six won before 1939), the former East Germany, France and Canada.'
' Britain alone have won more relay medals (23) than all the Caribbean islands (nine) and Africa (four, including one for South Africa).'
' The Dutch, with one, have more relay medals than all the nations of Asia (nil) and South America (nil) combined.'
" The Cuban women's 100 metres relay teams of 1968 and 1972 are the only women from outside the developed world to have won relay medals."
' With a little luck - with their nerve-stretching hand-overs the relays always require a little luck - the developing countries will continue the gentle redistribution of medals.'
' But although they have talent, few can match the strength in depth of the traditional relay powers.'
' The US 4x400m squad has been weakened by the injury to Danny Everett.'
" Even so they rested Steve Lewis, the 400m silver medallist, in last night's semi-finals."
" In the 4x100m heats James Jett replaced Carl Lewis but Lewis ran impressively in last night's semi-final and tonight will pursue his eighth Olympic gold."
' One thing that became clear on Thursday, when Lewis won his seventh gold with victory in the long jump, was that while winning at the Olympics may bring other athletes excitement or relief, Lewis simply adores the experience.'
" When Voula Patoulidou, looking up at the giant video screen after the women's 100m hurdle final, suddenly realised, to her astonishment, that she had won a gold medal, she went delightfully and utterly potty, as did the other 25 Greeks in the stadium, including Queen Sofia of Spain."
' Lewis, on the other hand, seemed unsurprised when Mike Powell was unable to overhaul him in the long jump.'
' Even though the long jump had not finished and even though 5,000m runners were trudging through a semi-final, Lewis began at once an extremely hammy lap-and-a-half of honour.'
' He tried to orchestrate a Mexican wave.'
' This is a man who derives immense pleasure from winning in front of a packed house.'
' Lewis will be difficult to suppress tonight.'
" Noureddine Morcelli of Algeria will be hard to beat in the men's 1,500m."
" Morcelli is one of five Africans in the final striving to increase their continent's tally of just three Olympic medals (all Kenyan) in this event."
' Even here there is a US connection: Morcelli attended Riverside Community College in California, to hone his running on good tracks.'
' On Thursday night, Morcelli cruised through his heat in first place after the gentlest push on the accelerator.'
' The Moroccan Rachid Al-Basir followed him down the straight, a respectful step behind, looming over his fellow Arab and glancing anxiously round like a bodyguard.'
' Morcelli has not been beaten in the 1,500m since 1990 .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page IX'
' LA040790-0121'
' 201051'
' April 7, 1990, Saturday, Home Edition'
' Sports; Part C; Page 16; Column 1; Sports Desk'
' 409 words'
' SHOOTER BAKES SETS RECORD, WINS GOLD'
' By ELLIOTT ALMOND, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' Someday, Milan Bakes of Czechoslovakia might find himself the toast of Pilsen, his hometown .'
" As one of the world's finest small-bore free-rifle shooters, he is coming close ."
" Bakes, 27, set a world record in the kneeling portion of the three-position rifle competition Friday en route to a gold medal at the 1990 World Cup USA Olympic-style shooting tournament at Petersen's Prado Tiro Ranges in Chino ."
" By scoring 396 of a possible 400 points, Bakes broke the record set last week in Mexico City by Yugoslavia's Rajmond Debevec ."
' The event includes 120 total shots in three positions  prone, standing and kneeling .'
' Bakes once held the record for standing, too, but that was four years ago.'
' He has yet to hold the prone record, but his 397 in that discipline helped him take a big lead in one of three medal events Friday .'
' Counting the 10-shot shoot-off, Bakes finished with 1,275.9 points out of 1,309.'
' Jean Pierre Amat of France was second with 1,271.9 .'
' Bakes, a lieutenant in the Czech army, said he was confident after his kneeling performance that he would do well .'
" In the day's closest competition, Francoise Decharne of Moulin, France, won the women's air rifle competition with a total of 496.4 of a possible 509."
' Soon Young Jin of South Korea was second and Deena Wigger of Murray, Ky.'
' , was third .'
' Wigger was second after the regular competition ended, but fell 0.7 of a point behind Jin in a 10-shot final round .'
' All international events have added the final round to increase television and spectator interest.'
' The top eight shooters in pistol, rifle and air events qualify, whereas the top six advance in shotgun events .'
" In women's air pistol, Jasna Sekaric of Yugoslavia won her second gold of the four-day event with a total of 490.8. Hyun Joo Bang of South Korea was second and Margit Stein of West Germany was third ."
' Sekaric, 24, held a nine-point lead going into the final round .'
' "My final was not so good," she said.'
' "I had too big of a lead.'
' I usually shoot better in these finals when I am pressed" .'
' Despite her lapse, she still won by 8.4 points over Bang, perhaps the most appropriately named competitor in this tournament featuring 46 countries .'
' Sekaric, a secretary at a shooting club, said she has been competing for 10 years.'
' She won gold and bronze medals at the Seoul Olympics .'
' Bang, also 24, and a Seoul bank accountant, did not fare so well in 1988.'
' Friday was her best international performance .'
' Game Story'
' SHOOTING (SPORT); SPORTS RECORDS; CZECHOSLOVAKIA  ATHLETICS; BAKES, MILAN'
' LA082889-0067'
' 100353'
' August 28, 1989, Monday, Southland Edition'
' Sports; Part 3; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk'
' 559 words'
' WORLD UNIVERSITY GAMES;'
' JOHNSON RUNS DOWN DECATHLON GOLD IN FINAL EVENT'
' From Associated Press'
' DUISBURG, West Germany'
' Dave Johnson of the United States clinched the decathlon gold medal in the final event at the World University Games Sunday .'
' Johnson trailed Mikhail Medved of the Soviet Union by 11 points before the 1,500-meter race, the final event of the two-day competition .'
' "It\'s the hardest I\'ve ever worked in my life," said Johnson, of Montclair, Calif.'
' "I was scared to death.'
' I knew I had to run at my best or even better to win" .'
' Johnson posted a time of 4 minutes 32.72 seconds in the 1,500.'
' That gave him 727 points for a winning total of 8,216, 154 more than Medved .'
' The Soviet had a time of 4:59.60 in the race, worth 562 points, and ended up second with a total of 8,062 .'
' Johnson leads the world decathlon rankings this year with 8,549 points.'
' "I always go out to give 100%, but the weather conditions stopped me from having a better score," he said .'
' Sheldon Blockburger of the U.S. was third going into the last event.'
' But he was overtaken by Dezso Szabo of Hungary and had to settle for fourth place at 7,906.'
' Szabo clinched the bronze with 8,031 .'
' "I felt good going into the race, but my legs just gave out," said Blockburger, who had the slowest 1,500 time and earned only 569 points in the final event .'
" Olympic steeplechase champion Julius Kariuki of Kenya, running the distance for the first time this year, won the men's 10,000-meter race, while the Romanian team earned six gold medals ."
" Four of Romania's golds came in rowing and two in track and field, one of them from Olympic champion Paula Ivan, who set a meet record in winning the women's 3,000-meter race ."
" Reggie Davis won the gold and Kevin Henderson took the bronze for the U.S. in the men's 400-meter intermediate hurdles ."
' Davis, of Tallahassee, Fla., breezed home in the hurdles in 49.74 seconds.'
' Vladimir Budko of the Soviet Union was a distant second in 50.30, with Henderson, of Auburn, Ala., third in 50.57 .'
' "I had some problems recently with disqualifications, but this time it was OK," Davis said.'
' "I wanted this title and a meet record, but the weather spoiled my chances" .'
' Kariuki, who won the gold medal at the 1988 Seoul Games in the 3,000-meter steeplechase, beat out Zeki Oeztuerk of Turkey to win the 10,000 in the slow time of 28:35.46 .'
' "I ran to win and didn\'t worry about the time," Kariuki said.'
' "I\'m in good condition and it\'s not a problem to run either the steeplechase or the 10,000" .'
' Ivan, the Olympic 1,500-meter champion and silver medalist at 3,000 meters, won the gold in the 3,000 in 8:44.09, bettering her meet record of 8:53.61 set in 1987 .'
" Ana Quirot of Cuba cruised to victory in the women's 400 meters in a slow 50.73, ahead of Jearl Miles of the U.S. at 52.41 ."
" Quirot posted a meet record of 50.01 in Saturday's heats, fastest in the world this year ."
' Miles, of Jacksonville, Fla., said she tried to conserve her strength for the final 200 meters .'
' "I tried not to waste too much energy on the backstretch and concentrated on giving a big burst on the home stretch," she said .'
" Jaime Jefferson of Cuba won the men's long jump at 26 feet, 2 1/4 inches."
' Vladimir Ratoushkov of the Soviet Union was second at 26-1 1/2, followed by Llewellyn Starks of the U.S. at 25-11 1/2 .'
" Galina Astafei of Romania, the world junior champion, upset Silvia Costa of Cuba in the women's high jump."
' Both cleared 6-3 1/4 but Astafei won on fewer misses .'
' Game Story; Wire'
' WSJ881004-0111'
' Olympic Gold Falls in Advertising Value - Medal Winners Lack Appeal As Endorsers'
' Joanne Lipman (WSJ Staff)'
' GIS MCD'
' MKT'
" The 1984 Summer Olympic Games weren't even over when advertisers began clamoring for pixie gymnast Mary Lou Retton."
' She went on to grin relentlessly through some $5 million worth of commercial endorsements  surely an Olympic record in itself.'
' But when the 1988 Summer Games ended Sunday night, so, too, did the chance for American athletes to follow in her footsteps.'
" Ad agency executives, who spend every fourth year glued to their TV sets, hoping to pick out the next star to hawk their clients' products, say that this Olympiad was a dud."
' "I suspect this will go down as the dullest in the history of the Olympics," says Jerry Della Femina, chairman of ad agency Della Femina McNamee WCRS.'
' "This is the first Olympics without passion, and without passion you don\'t have testimonials.'
' Without heroes, you don\'t have anyone that anyone wants to emulate".'
' On the surface, the Games seemed to offer all the drama that usually makes for lucrative endorsement contracts.'
' Who could forget diver Greg Louganis smacking his head on the springboard, then coming back to win two gold medals?'
' Or flamboyant Florence Griffith Joyner, her two-inch fingernails raking the air as she won the 100-meter sprint?'
" But even these two, along with Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who won the women's heptathalon and the long jump, may find it more difficult than in previous years to turn gold medals into gold in the bank."
' The fact is, say many marketers, Olympic gold has lost much of its commercial luster.'
' "I don\'t think it\'s big money like it used to be," says Michael Goldberg of National Media Group Inc., the New York sports-marketing firm that represents Ms. Retton.'
' "It used to be kind of a knee-jerk reaction to do an ad campaign around an Olympic athlete.'
' It just doesn\'t happen anymore".'
" Certainly, this year's winning Olympians will have no trouble securing contracts from specialized sports-equipment outfitters and speaking invitations from obscure trade groups."
" But the major, high-paying endorsements  such as those with soft-drink companies and fast-food outlets  just don't seem to be surfacing, at least not yet."
' Earlier this year, sports marketers estimated that a gold medal won during the Summer Games could earn a personable athlete more than $1 million in endorsements.'
' Now, marketers say, these medalists will be lucky to pull in $100,000 to $500,000 a year.'
" Advertisers can reel off a litany of reasons why these Olympics aren't igniting much spark."
' For one thing, they suffer by comparison with the 1984 Summer Games, so exciting because they were held in Los Angeles and because, in the absence of boycotting Soviet-bloc countries, the Americans won 83 gold medals.'
' The 1988 Games, by contrast, were broadcast from halfway around the world, and the Soviets trounced the Americans, 55 gold medals to 36.'
" What's more, marketers say, this year's drug scandals cast a pall over the Games, especially the incident involving Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson, who lost his gold medal after testing positive for steroids."
" NBC's TV coverage also gets its share of the blame."
' Marketers say it was so bland and skipped so frequently from one event to another that there was little chance for excitement to build.'
" The constant commercial interruptions, which led to ratings that were much lower than expected, didn't help, either."
' During most of the past Games, "there was enough continuous TV coverage so that, much like a soap opera, it was possible to get involved in the lives and in the competition," says Leigh Steinberg, attorney for ice-skater Brian Boitano, a gold medalist at the 1988 Winter Games.'
' But not this summer, he says.'
' Recent changes in Olympic rules, meanwhile, have led to a glut of Olympians in search of endorsement deals.'
" Before the 1984 Games, most Olympic athletes weren't allowed to make commercials unless they gave up their amateur status."
' Now, they can appear in as many ads as they want, but the income must go into a trust fund for training expenses.'
' "Every year, more and more Olympic people are out there wanting to do commercials  basically, everybody is available," says Daisy Sinclair, a vice president with ad agency Ogilvy Group Inc.'
' As a result, while once an "aura" surrounded an Olympian, now "the bloom is off".'
' Companies also are becoming more sophisticated in their approach to celebrity endorsements.'
" Increasingly cost conscious, they will no longer hook up with an Olympian just because the company president likes the athlete's sport."
' And after years of paying big bucks to Olympic stars only to see them fade into obscurity, companies have finally gotten the hint that Olympian fame is of the most fleeting variety.'
' "If you think your phone will ring off the hook if (you win) a gold medal, it isn\'t going to happen anymore," says Stephen Disson, senior vice president of marketing for ProServ Inc., a Washington sports-marketing firm.'
' Companies now know that "six months from now there will be other heroes from other sporting events" for them to consider.'
" Ad agency BBDO Worldwide's attitude toward the Olympics is becoming typical."
" It uses sports stars in its commercials for Pepsi Light and Oppenheimer Mutual Funds but has no plans to call on any of 1988's Olympians."
' "I prefer to use athletes who are in the public eye on a regular basis, like football and basketball players," says Charles Miesmer, the agency\'s executive creative director.'
' "People like Michael Jordan have 10-plus years in their sports careers, all in a row, so I don\'t have to worry about the public saying, \'Carl who\'"?'
" And don't look for any of 1988's winners to start showing up on Wheaties boxes, either."
' General Mills Inc., which has featured Ms. Retton and decathalon gold-medalist Bruce Jenner on its Wheaties boxes in the past, says it looks for three qualities in an endorser: career achievement, popular appeal and off-the-field accomplishments.'
" A spokeswoman says that none of this year's crop meet all three criteria."
' So far, Ms. Joyner-Kersee has had the most visible endorsements.'
' Even before the Olympics began, she had made commercials for Primatene mist and 7-Up.'
' And, according to her agent, Pearl Hodge of World Class Management, she is now "in the process" of signing with McDonald\'s Corp., to work on behalf of its efforts to aid underprivileged children.'
" Ms. Joyner-Kersee's sister-in-law, Ms. Griffith Joyner, may soon take the endorsement lead."
' Advertisers say with her good looks and fashion flare, she is attracting more interest than any of the other medal winners.'
" (The sprinter's manager couldn't be reached for comment)."
' Another Olympian with endorsement potential is swimmer Matt Biondi, who won five gold medals.'
' Mr. Biondi has already signed a swim-wear contract with Arena USA Inc., and Parkes Brittain, his agent at Advantage International Inc., says his client "will definitely be in a high-income ring, the highest you can name".'
' Then there is Mr. Louganis.'
' Since winning two gold medals during the 1984 Summer Olympics, the diver has had little luck with major endorsements.'
' And a few marketing executives say that even his second sweep of the diving events may not up his potential.'
' "When most advertisers are looking for the male hero, the word \'macho\' trails along very closely," says Marty Blackman of Blackman & Raber, a sports-marketing firm in New York.'
' "I don\'t find Louganis a macho guy".'
' Still, other marketing professionals say that Mr.'
" Louganis's dramatic recovery after smashing his head has secured the diver's future."
" His manager, Jim Babbitt, won't comment on any contract offers."
' He will say, however, that his client has "done just fine.'
" He isn't unhappy."
' He dives to perform; he doesn\'t dive for dollars".'
' - Winning Endorsements There is only one former Olympian among the top sports endorsers of last year.'
" ATHLETE: Arnold Palmer (Golf) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Hertz, PaineWebber, Pennzoil, United Airlines, GTE, Toro, Loft Seed Co., Sears, Pro Group, Robert Bruce, Westin Hotels ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $8 million ATHLETE: Jack Nicklaus (Golf) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Bostonian Shoe Co., Hart Schaffner & Marx, Optique Du Monde, Pine Hosiery Mills, Warnaco ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $6 million ATHLETE: Boris Becker (Tennis) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Puma, Coca-Cola, Deutsche Bank, Polaroid, UNICEF ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $6 million ATHLETE: Greg Norman (Golf) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Reebok, Spalding, Epson Computers, Hertz, Qantas Airlines, Daikyo Group, Swan Lager & Castlemaine, Akubia Hats ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $4.5 million ATHLETE: Michael Jordan (Basketball, 1984 Olympian) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Nike, Wilson, Excelsior, McDonald's, Coca-Cola, Chevrolet, Johnson Products, Ohio Art ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $4 million ATHLETE: Ivan Lendl (Tennis) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Gleneagles Country Club, Avis, Seiko, Adidas, Bow Brand Strings ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $3 million ATHLETE: John Madden (Former football coach) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Ace Hardware, Miller Lite, Ramada, Exxon, Canon, Greyhound ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $3 million ATHLETE: Jim McMahon (Football) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Taco Bell, Kraft Foods, Ebel Watches, Honda, Adidas, LJN Toys, Revo Sunglasses ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $3 million ATHLETE: Dennis Conner (Yachting) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Rayban, Sperry Topsider, Wrigley's, Disney, Lacoste, Pepsi-Cola ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $2 million ATHLETE: Chris Evert (Tennis) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Lipton Iced Tea, Wilson Converse, Ellesse, Polo Club of Boca Raton, Rolex, Evert Active Life Skin Care, Marchon Sunwear for Ellesse ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $2 million ATHLETE: Martina Navratilova (Tennis) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Puma, Lufthansa Airlines, Vuarnet, DHL, Sugar-Free Jello, Aspen Club, RKO Video, World Tennis Magazine ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $2 million ATHLETE: Jackie Stewart (Retired race car driver) NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Ford, Goodyear, USF&G, Rolex, Gleneagles, American Express, British Telecom, ICCI ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $2 million Source: Sports Marketing Newsletter"
