' AP891115-0199'
' AP-NR-11-15-89 2054EST'
' u a AM-WeatherpageWeather 1stLd-Writethru a0739'
' AM-Weatherpage Weather, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0739,0667'
' Severe Weather Erupts Over Mississippi Valley, Southeast'
' Eds: LEADS with 4 grafs to UPDATE with lethal tornado in Alabama; picks up 3rd graf pvs, `People in ...'
' INSERTS 2 grafs after 8th graf pvs, `Thunderstorms crossing ...'
" ,' to UPDATE with storms hitting Georgia, Ohio ."
' By The Associated Press'
' Thunderstorms wreaked havoc across the middle Mississippi Valley and the Southeast on Wednesday with lethal tornadoes, wind up to 100 mph and hail up to the size of baseballs.'
' At least four tornadoes pounded the Huntsville, Ala., area.'
' One twister smashed into a residential district, a shopping area and a school, killing at least two people and causing dozens of injuries, police said.'
' Southern Illinois was also hard hit by the storms, with one woman killed by a falling tree, about 20 people injured and power lines downed.'
' Elsewhere, snow fell from the northern Rockies to the upper Great Lakes, while unseasonably mild weather continued in the East.'
' People in Alorton, Ill., a village of 2,700 about five miles southeast of East St. Louis, were injured when trees fell on their houses or mobile homes, said Bill Gamblin of the St. Clair County Emergency Services and Disaster Agency.'
' At Parks College in Cahokia, Ill., eight miles south of East St. Louis, aircraft hangers were twisted and flattened and small aircraft tossed around the airport by high winds, the National Weather Service said.'
' Storms in the area generated wind estimated at 80 to 100 mph, the weather service said.'
' The thunderstorms developed along and ahead of a strong cold front and swept eastward from Missouri and Arkansas.'
' Thunderstorms crossing northeastern Arkansas whipped up high wind which blew away metal roofing being installed on a high school gymnasium at Lepanto and dumped hail up to 2 inches in diameter at Leachville.'
' Heavy thunderstorms, possibly a tornado, struck the north Georgia town of Palmetto late Wednesday, causing extensive damage, authorities said.'
' In central and southwest Ohio, thunderstorms packing winds up to 66 mph destroyed barns and a trailer home and tore the roofs off several buildings.'
' Some injuries but no fatalities were reported.'
" An afternoon thunderstorm in east-central Alabama formed a tornado which damaged at least one home, and the Clay County Sheriff's office said an unknown number of people were injured in one house."
' Thunderstorms sweeping across Tennessee spun off a tornado in southeastern Madison Country, and dropped hail as big as baseballs north of Jackson, the weather service said.'
' Hail stones as big as tennis balls fell near Huntingburg, Ind., the weather service said.'
' The heaviest rainfall during the six hours up to 1 p.m. EST was 1.22 inches at Peru, Ind.'
' Wind up to 65 mph damaged roofs, power lines and trees in parts of Kentucky and Louisiana, the weather service said.'
' Severe thunderstorms also developed over Alabama and South Carolina during the afternoon, and the weather service reported a tornado north of Greenwood, S.C.'
' Other showers and thunderstorms, with locally heavy rain, were widely scattered along the northern Atlantic Coast.'
' Light snow associated with an arctic cold front extended from eastern Wyoming and northeastern Colorado into western Minnesota.'
' Snow also fell across parts of northern Wisconsin and Upper Michigan.'
' As much as 1 to 2 feet of snow was possible by Thursday morning along the Lake Superior shore of Wisconsin.'
' Strong northwesterly wind ushering the cold air into the north-central states gusted above 40 mph during the afternoon, creating wind chill readings colder than 25 degrees below zero.'
' Snow, high wind and rapidly falling temperatures associated with the cold front briefly produced near-blizzard conditions in Nebraska late Wednesday morning.'
' Unseasonably warm weather continued in the East with afternoon readings in the 60s in New England, and in the 80s over Florida, southern Texas and southern Louisiana.'
" Wednesday morning's low for the Lower 48 states was 9 degrees above zero at Ely, Nev ."
' AP891116-0035'
' AP-NR-11-16-89 0234EST'
' u a AM-AlabamaTornado 7thLd-Writethru a0444-a0439 11-16 0834'
' AM-Alabama Tornado, 7th Ld - Writethru, a0444-a0439,0856'
' URGENT'
' Deadly Twister Smashes Huntsville, Ala .'
' Eds: LEADS with 3 grafs to UPDATE with 15th fatality; picks up 4th graf pvs .'
' LaserPhotos ATN1, HUN1,2,3; LaserGraphic'
' By HOYT HARWELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' HUNTSVILLE, Ala. (AP)'
' A tornado slammed into a shopping district, a residential area and a school Wednesday, killing at least 15 people, injuring more than 300 and trapping people in cars and homes, authorities said.'
" ``It's total destruction where the tornado hit."
" Cars are piled on top of each other under piles of rubble where buildings used to be,'' said Danny Cooper, state emergency management director in Montgomery."
' Emergency officials in Huntsville reported 15 confirmed deaths, said Henry Jurnigan, a duty officer with the state Emergency Management Agency in Montgomery.'
' Mayor Steve Hettinger said 305 people were injured and about 500 displaced by the tornado that struck while streets of this northeastern Alabama city filled with rush-hour traffic.'
' Rescue teams with cranes and floodlights searched the rubble through the night for injured or dead.'
" ``Several people are still trapped in vehicles and apartment complexes and shopping areas,'' said police spokesman Ben Jennings after the twister touched down between 4 and 4:30 p.m. in the city's south section."
" ``It may be tomorrow before we have a final count,'' Gov. Guy Hunt said at the state's disaster center in Montgomery."
' The governor dispatched 50 National Guardsmen, along with search and rescue equipment.'
' Rescuers picked through piles of rubble 10 to 14 feet deep, and Cooper said police were unable to determine the extent of the damaged area.'
' Rescuers also were hampered by darkness and plunging temperatures.'
" ``We're even having a few snowflakes,'' said Cooper."
' High temperatures in Huntsville were expected to be in the 30s Thursday, he said.'
' Witnesses said the downtown Jones Valley Elementary School, the Waterford Square and adjacent Queensbury apartment complexes were reduced to rubble by the tornado.'
" ``The only thing left standing was a door frame,'' news photographer Mike Mercier said of the school, which was empty of staff and pupils when the tornado hit."
' Police reported one person killed in a car outside the school.'
' Authorities said at least five were killed at Waterford Square apartments, three at a business school, Southern Junior College, which is located in a converted movie theater, and others in scattered areas.'
" ``Rescuers are digging in the rubble,'' state trooper W.L. Kelly said."
' He said two people were killed when the twister hit house trailers in rural areas east of Huntsville.'
' The fifth death was reported near the shopping district.'
" The city is home to Marshall Space Flight Center and the Army's Redstone Arsenal, but no serious damage was reported from the space agency or weapons testing center."
" ``We've called in troopers from around the state to help,'' Kelly said."
' Telephone communication and electricity were disrupted by the tornadoes and WAAY-TV, the only station still broadcasting, reported widespread damage.'
" ``It came in with a huge roar, an enormous amount of water, and it just started shaking and tearing at everything it could get hold of,'' said real estate broker Ike Carroll, who was in his car when the twister struck."
' ``It started picking cars up and pushing them around, ...'
" some of them upside down, some of them just strewn around,'' he said."
" Heavy overhead power lines ``started snapping just like a circus performer would snap his whip,'' Carroll said."
' ``All of these heavy arcing, flashing lines that were just popping and snapping over the top of us ...'
" it was as if you were looking into an arc-welder, they were so bright,'' he said."
' WAAY reported at least one person died when the roof of a business collapsed from winds that overturned cars in the area.'
' A nearby shopping center also was damaged.'
' Humana Hospital administrator David Miller said doctors were having difficulty reaching the hospital because of blocked roads.'
' The National Weather Service earlier said a tornado hit the east Alabama hamlet of Mellow Valley, severely damaging at least one home and causing some injuries.'
' Weather officials said people were trapped inside a collapsed house.'
" A spokeswoman for the Clay County Sheriff's Department said people were injured at one house in a rural area 30 miles east of Sylacauga."
' Another tornado touched down about 1:30 p.m. as severe weather swept across much of Alabama and the National Weather Service placed most of the state under a tornado watch.'
' A third tornado was reported shortly before 3:30 p.m. crossing the Coosa River near Titus in east Alabama, the Weather Service said.'
' In Georgia, five people were injured, four critically, and at least 200 people evacuated after a tornado struck two mobile home parks and an interstate highway near Palmetto, about 25 miles southeast of Atlanta, authorities said.'
' Authorities in southwestern North Carolina said a pair of storm-spawned tornadoes struck around 10:45 p.m., destroying a vacant house in Henderson County.'
' The National Weather Service also reported tornadoes inflicting minor property damage in Kentucky and Mississippi .'
' AP891116-0115'
' AP-NR-11-16-89 1340EST'
' u a PM-SouthernTornadoes 4thLd-Writethru a0583 11-16 1208'
' PM-Southern Tornadoes, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0583,1242'
' Twister Rips Through Alabama City, Killing 17'
' Eds: SUBS 5th graf, `Gov.'
" Guy'... with 3 grafs to UPDATE with 25-mile path, tornado watches in Northeast."
" Picks up 6th graf, `Elsewhere:'"
' LaserPhotos WX9, HUN3; LaserGraphic'
' By HOYT HARWELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' HUNTSVILLE, Ala. (AP)'
' Rescuers crawled through collapsed homes and shops today looking for more victims of a tornado that carved a 3-mile stretch of destruction, killing 17 people, injuring 463 and leaving 1,000 homeless.'
" ``It's like taking six to 10 city blocks and putting them in a blender and putting it on liquefy,'' said rescue worker Bob Caraway, whose specialty is cave rescues."
' He was among those called out to help dig through rubble for survivors or the bodies of the dead.'
' The tornado was one of a series that touched down Wednesday in an arc spanning at least seven states from the Deep South to the Midwest.'
' The other tornadoes caused at least 19 injuries and far-flung property damage.'
' In Huntsville, teams with cranes and floodlights searched for the injured or dead, hampered by wind-whipped rain and temperatures that plummeted overnight from 73 degrees into the 30s.'
' Gov. Guy Hunt sent 50 National Guardsmen to help and said he would view damage Friday.'
' His spokesman, Terry Abbott, said aerial surveys indicate the twister hopped along a 25-mile path, much of it straight through Huntsville.'
' By this afternoon, severe thunderstorms were crossing the Northeast.'
' The National Weather Service put out a tornado watch for parts of Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, all of Connecticut and Rhode Island, and parts of Massachusetts, Vermont and New Hampshire.'
' In Pennsylvania, the weather service said it received unconfirmed reports of a tornado that turned over a car and knocked down trees and power lines near Gettysburg.'
' Elsewhere: _In Georgia, 19 people were injured, four critically, and at least 200 people were evacuated after a tornado strus.C., and a tornado toppled trees, downed power lines and damaged 20 houses near Greenwood, S.C.'
' No injuries were reported in either state.'
' _Tornadoes caused minor property damage in Mississippi, Kentucky and Indiana.'
' _In West Virginia, high winds believed to be tornadoes swept Jefferson County early today, overturning trailers, blowing roofs off homes and downing power lines, authorities said.'
' Four people were injured, two seriously.'
' _Heavy thunderstorms destroyed at least a dozen homes in Alorton, Ill., killing one person and injuring 20 others, five seriously, authorities said.'
" The tornado struck Huntsville with virtually no warning Wednesday afternoon as the city's streets grew busy with the approach of rush hour."
' In a matter of seconds, cars were hurled through the air and crushed, and apartments and stores looked as if they had been bombed.'
" ``It was fast,'' said Lucy Lee Rusk, whose apartment was battered by debris."
" ``It was like one big pop and that's when everything went''."
' The National Weather Service had issued a tornado watch earlier in the day, but did not issue a more urgent tornado warning until 4:39 p.m. CST, when the tornado was spotted at the municipal golf course.'
' By then, it was already tearing up the city.'
' A watch means a tornado is considered possible, while a warning means a tornado is believed to exist.'
' Huntsville Police Maj.'
' Robert Moder said this morning that 463 people were injured by the twister, which plowed through a school and rural areas as well as a shopping mall and adjacent apartments.'
' Police Chief Richard Ottman initially put the number of dead at 19, but his clerk, Kitty Whitworth, later said the death toll was lowered to 17 after police confirmed the count of bodies.'
' She said police had no firm reports of people missing.'
' No children in the school were killed, but about 30 youngsters were in a kindergarten class at the building, and five were reported injured.'
' Most of the dead were in apartments, stores or cars.'
' Mayor Steve Hettinger estimated the number of homeless at 1,000 and said officials were preparing a request for federal disaster assistance.'
" A worker at a building owned by the Madison County Jaycees said 42 people were staying there early today, and described the mood of the survivors as ``shock, mostly, and disbelief''."
" ``They're thankful to be alive and they're thankful their families are alive,'' he said, adding that the shelter had received calls from around the country from worried relatives."
" The tornado was Alabama's deadliest since a 1975 twister killed 22 people in Birmingham, said Danny Cooper, state emergency management director in Montgomery."
' Along a highway near a destroyed apartment complex, cars were flipped and smashed into telephone poles and crushed by trees.'
' The roadway was strewn with used bandages and medical gloves left by emergency workers treating the injured.'
' Humana Hospital administrator David Miller said doctors had difficulty reaching the hospital because of blocked roads.'
" Those in the tornado's path spoke with awe of its fury."
" ``It came in with a huge roar, an enormous amount of water, and it just started shaking and tearing at everything it could get hold of,'' said real estate broker Ike Carroll, who was in his car."
" Heavy overhead power lines ``started snapping just like a circus performer would snap his whip,'' Carroll said."
' ``All of these heavy arcing, flashing lines that were just popping and snapping over the top of us.'
" ... It was as if you were looking into an arc-welder, they were so bright''."
' Kenneth Lenhard had undergone an operation at the Crestwood Hospital on Wednesday and returned to his room about an hour before a window in the next room blew out as the tornado passed.'
" ``There wasn't anything I could do, so I covered my head,'' Lenhard said."
" ``I thought, `What the heck, I'm already half dead'."
" '' The downtown Jones Valley Elementary School, the Waterford Square and adjacent Queensbury apartment complexes were reduced to rubble."
' Kindergarteners were the only pupils left at the school by the time the twister hit.'
" The city is home to NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center and the Army's Redstone Arsenal, but no serious damage was reported from the space agency or weapons testing center."
' At least two other tornadoes were reported in Alabama, injuring at least three people in addition to the Huntsville total.'
' Near Palmetto, Ga., resident Jeff Bryant said his home at the Sweetbriar Mobile Home Park near Interstate 85 began to vibrate when the twister approached.'
" ``Then we heard a large, loud, swirling and humming noise,'' he recalled."
" ``It didn't sound like a train like everybody says it does."
' I lived near a train track.'
' It did not sound like a train.'
" It sounded more like a jet aircraft at very close range''."
' Thomas Farr was driving on Interstate 85 when the tornado hit.'
" ``It was picking up cars and tossing them like toys off the interstate,'' he said."
' ``I saw one 18-wheeler flip over.'
' The car in front of us was flipped about 100 yards, and the guy was thrown out of his passenger window and landed 50 feet from his car .'
' AP891116-0133'
' AP-NR-11-16-89 2015EST'
' r a AM-Tornadoes-Survivors 11-16 0484'
' AM-Tornadoes-Survivors,0498'
" Young Survivor: `Everybody Wanted Their Mom'"
' With AM-Southern Tornadoes, Bjt'
' By HOYT HARWELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' HUNTSVILLE, Ala. (AP)'
' Employees at a jewelry store huddled in the vault while the shop came down around them.'
' A man in an apartment building stayed in his bathtub while the bathroom walls crumbled and fell.'
' Those were among the stories people in this northern Alabama city swapped on Thursday as they assessed the damage from a tornado that whipped through the heart of the city in a flash, leaving at least 17 people dead and hundreds homeless.'
" ``Everybody was screaming and windows started breaking and the roof started to fall,'' recalled Vincent Davis, a fourth-grader at Jones Valley Elementary School."
' ``The whole top story flew off.'
" Everybody wanted their mom''."
' Vincent was staying late at school Wednesday when the twister hit shortly after 4:30 p.m.'
' He was taken to a hospital with minor injuries; five of about 30 children in a kindergarten class also were reported hurt.'
' Lynn Culpepper was in his bathtub at the Waterford Square apartments, where at least a dozen buildings were destroyed.'
" ``The next thing I knew, glass was breaking and I was rolling on the ground,'' he recalled."
' ``It was just black, and then there was this tumbling feeling with debris flying around everywhere.'
" When I opened my eyes and looked around, there was just a pile of rubble where the apartments used to be''."
" Culpepper's head and arms were cut in the collapse."
' Manager Bob Husman of a Golbro jewelry store ordered employees into the vault shortly before the roof and walls crashed down on him, 20 feet from the vault.'
" ``In the jewelry business, the vault is the safest place,'' he said."
' ``I had structural steel on me but managed to crawl out.'
" It was the worst kind of nightmare''."
' The employees in the vault were dug out an hour after the collapse, shaken but not hurt.'
' Rick Snider was in the bakery aisle of a supermarket.'
" ``Part of the roof was coming off,'' he said."
' ``Some ladies were crying, but it was quite calm.'
' A checkout lady was hit with a cash register.'
" People were shouting, `Can I help'? and they were leading people to the light."
' There was no screaming or hysterical stuff.'
" I came out and I couldn't believe the damage''."
' For Ed Rolan, a medic, the devastation brought back memories of Vietnam.'
' Rolan, who was driving home when the tornado hit, went right to work helping the stricken motorists around him.'
" ``One lady was thrown from her car and I thought she was dead,'' he said."
' ``I came back by her later and saw she had changed positions.'
" It took 30 minutes to get a stretcher to her''."
" The enormity of the death and destruction ``sank in very quickly,'' Rolan said."
" ``This is the closest to death I have been since Vietnam.''"
' AP891116-0184'
' AP-NR-11-16-89 1930EST'
' u a AM-WeatherpageWeather 11-16 0565'
' AM-Weatherpage Weather,0581'
' Powerful Storm Pushes North, Brings Floods and Destruction to Northeast'
' By The Associated Press'
' A powerful storm system brought strong winds and heavy thunderstorms to the Northeast on Thursday, causing flooding and widespread property damage.'
' Seven children died when a wall collapsed in a school cafeteria near Newburgh, N.Y.'
' Tornadoes were reported in New Jersey, Delaware, Virginia and New York, although the National Weather Service was unable to confirm them.'
' The same storm system caused tornadoes in seven states in the South and Midwest on Wednesday, and was blamed for 17 deaths in Huntsville, Ala.'
' The storm was particularly violent because it occurred along a line of extreme variations in temperature.'
' High temperature records fell in advance of the storm and sharply colder weather lurked behind it.'
' Record highs were recorded in Binghamton, N.Y., where it was 61 degrees, Bridgeport, Conn., (66), and Burlington, Vt., (69).'
' A record was also set in Miami, where it was 89.'
' Thunderstorms continued across the Ohio Valley overnight and during the morning.'
' Storms that might have been tornadoes damaged a residence and a store near Richmond, Va., and uprooted about 600 feet of trees near Wilmington, Del.'
' Other storms that might have been tornados were reported near Peekskill, N.Y., and Piscataway, N.J., during the afternoon.'
' Strong thunderstorms caused a concrete-and-glass wall to blow in on a cafeteria during lunchtime at the East Coldenham Elementary School near Newburgh.'
' Seven children were killed and 18 injured.'
' There were reports of damage from strong thunderstorms and gusty winds in eastern Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania and eastern New York state.'
' Winds gusted to 65 mph in Baltimore, 76 mph in Lancaster, Pa., and 100 mph at Great Valley, Pa. A tornado watch was posted for northeast New York state, much of Vermont and much of New Hampshire.'
' Thunderstorms also produced locally heavy rain and flooding.'
' A flood warning was posted over portions of upstate New York.'
' Nearly two inches of rain fell east of Utica, N.Y., at the Little Falls Reservoir, which overflowed and caused flooding.'
' Water was eroding the Lyons Pond Dam near Dolgeville, N.Y., causing flooding there.'
' Snow was falling west of the cold front.'
' A winter storm warning was posted for northwest Wisconsin, in the snowbelt near Lake Superior.'
' Winter storm warnings were posted for much of lower Michigan, northwestern upper Michigan and north central Indiana.'
' Winds gusted to 63 mph at Whitefish Point, Mi.'
' , and near blizzard conditions extended over eastern upper Michigan.'
' Overnight snowfall across upper Michigan included 12 inches at Van Riper State Park and 10 inches near Neguanee.'
' Heavier snowfall during the 6 hours ending at 1 p.m. EST included 4 inches at Houghton Lake, Mich., 3 inches at Marquette, Pellston, Saginaw and Sault Ste.'
' Marie, all in Michigan, and 2 inches at South Bend, Ind.'
' Heavy snow warnings were posted for the northwest and northern mountain portions of Pennsylvania.'
' A snow squall warning was posted for northeast Ohio.'
' Cold weather was expected to invade the Southeast, with warnings of freezing overnight temperatures posted for Friday morning in Georgia, Alabama, northwest Florida, most of Mississippi and all but extreme southeast Louisiana.'
' The low temperature for the nation Thursday morning was 8 degrees below zero at Bismarck, N.D.'
' Temperatures around the nation at 3 p.m. EST ranged from 7 degrees at Fergus Falls, Minn., to 88 degrees at Miami, Fla .'
' AP891116-0191'
' AP-NR-11-16-89 2029EST'
' u a AM-Storms-Glance 1stLd-Writethru a0771 11-16 0704'
' AM-Storms-Glance, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0771,0717'
' With AM-Southern Tornadoes, Bjt'
' Eds: INSERTS items on Illinois and Ohio, changes death toll to 27 to reflect Illinois death, SUBS West Virginia item to CORRECT location of Jefferson County .'
' By The Associated Press'
' Here is a state-by-state look at the tornadoes and severe thunderstorms that have killed at least 27 people, injured more than 500 and left hundreds homeless since Wednesday:'
' _Alabama: Seventeen people were killed in Huntsville on Wednesday when a tornado touched down just before rush hour, causing major damage.'
' There were 463 injuries and about 1,000 people left homeless, authorities said.'
' Three people were injured in an earlier tornado in Clay County in eastern Alabama.'
' _District of Columbia: Heavy thunderstorms packing 50-60 mph winds swept through the Washington area during the Thursday morning rush hour, flooding some streets.'
' About 10,000 customers lost power, mostly in the Maryland suburbs.'
' No injuries were reported.'
' _Georgia: 19 people were injured, four critically, and at least 200 people were evacuated Wednesday after a tornado struck two mobile home parks and an interstate highway near Palmetto, about 25 miles southeast of Atlanta.'
' _Illinois: Strong winds Wednesday morning destroyed about 15 homes and killed one woman in St. Clair County in southwestern Illinois.'
' Damage was estimated at $3 million to $5 million.'
' _Indiana: A tornado was spotted Wednesday afternoon around Richmond, close to the Ohio border.'
' It ripped the top off a silo and tipped a semi-trailer into a ditch.'
' The driver was slightly injured.'
' _Kentucky: The storm Wednesday left at least 28 people injured; damage was estimated at $2.5 million or more.'
' A storm believed to have been a tornado cut a mile-long swath of destruction through the town of Flaherty in Meade County.'
' Damage was also reported in Bullitt, LaRue, Hardin and Pendleton counties.'
' _Maryland, Delaware: Heavy winds on Thursday leveled a church building in Kent County, Md., lifted roofs from buildings in Baltimore and cut power to tens of thousands of utility customers, authorities said.'
' Reports of tornado damage came from Kent County, Md., and Hockessin, Del.'
' National Weather Service officials were unable to immediately confirm the reports.'
' No injuries were reported.'
' _Mississippi: Scattered damage and power outages were reported Wednesday after radar showed tornadoes in Neshoba and Kemper counties in the east-central portion of the state.'
' No injuries were reported.'
' _New Jersey: High winds and tornadoes were blamed for one death, at least four injuries and widespread damage and power outages Thursday.'
' A tornado touched down in Piscataway shortly after noon, collapsing on house and damaging 10 to 12 others.'
' One person suffered a minor injury.'
' A bridge connecting Elizabeth with New York City was closed after two tractor trailers overturned in heavy winds; one truck driver died and a passenger was injured.'
' Two minor injuries were reported in Bergen County.'
' _New York: A severe thunderstorm Thursday sent a tree crashing through an elementary school roof in Newburgh, about 60 miles north of New York City, killing at least seven children and injuring 18, authorities said.'
" In New York City, a woman was killed by a 12-foot steel beam that apparently had blown off her apartment's water tower."
' Tornadoes were reported in Peekskill, just north of the city.'
' _North Carolina: A pair of tornadoes were reported Wednesday in Henderson County, where a vacant house was destroyed.'
' No injuries were reported.'
' _Ohio: High winds described by local authorities as a tornado hopscotched across north-central Ohio on Wednesday, ripping roofs off barns and houses, destroying farm sheds and damaging trailer homes.'
' One man was hospitalized from a lightning strike and a woman was slightly injured by flying debris.'
' _Pennsylvania: High winds and funnel clouds ripped off roofs and downed trees in eastern Pennslyvania on Thursday, shattering windows in Philadelphia skyscrapers.'
' No serious injuries were reported, but at least 75,000 customers in southeastern Pennsylvania lost power.'
' _South Carolina: A tornado Wednesday downed power lines and damaged 20 houses near Greenwood.'
' No injuries were reported.'
' _West Virginia: High winds knocked over trees, ripped roofs off houses and toppled a trailer early Thursday in Jefferson County, just west of Frederick, Md., injuring four members of one family, two seriously.'
' The National Weather Service said the storm probably was a tornado .'
' AP891116-0198'
' AP-NR-11-16-89 2218EST'
' u a AM-SouthernTornadoes 3rdLd-Writethru a0813 11-16 1138'
' AM-Southern Tornadoes, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0813,1167'
' Huntsville Picks Up Pieces One Day After Killer Tornado'
' Eds: Fixes paragraphing in 1st 2 grafs; SUBS 2nd graf to raise reference to Illinois death; SUBS grafs 10-13, `The cafeteria ...'
" Hughes said' with 6 grafs to UPDATE with up to 125 children in school, dead ages 7 to 8, four injured critically, power outages in Connecticut; picks up 14th graf, `Tornadoes were ...'"
' LaserPhotos HUN1,2,3,5,10,13, MFD1, LaserColor HUN10'
' By PAUL NEWBERRY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' A violent storm that spun tornadoes across the South and Midwest blew north Thursday, knocking a cafeteria wall down on top of lunching schoolchildren in upstate New York.'
' The two-day toll was at least 27 dead and hundreds injured.'
' The cafeteria cave-in claimed the lives of seven children near Newburgh, N.Y., and deaths also were reported in New York City, New Jersey and Illinois.'
' Seventeen people died Wednesday in Huntsville, Ala., when a tornado packing 250 mph winds struck virtually without warning, laying waste to a wide swath of the city.'
' The storm churned around a collision of record warm air and extremely cold air.'
' The result was tornadoes and unusually severe thunderstorms.'
' By far the worst damage was in Huntsville, where an estimated 1,000 people were left homeless and National Guardsmen stood watch against looting Thursday.'
' No bodies were believed left in the rubble, but portions of the city resembled a bombing target.'
' A shopping center and clusters of apartment buildings were leveled.'
' Cars were piled atop each other.'
' Utility poles had been snapped like twigs.'
' The National Weather Service said the tornado path had covered between eight and 10 miles and that its wind speeds were as high as 250 mph.'
" ``It's like taking six to 10 city blocks and putting them in a blender and putting it on liquefy,'' said rescue worker Bob Caraway."
' As the storm moved north on Thursday, it knocked over trees and ripped the the roofs off houses in West Virginia, injuring four members of one family, two seriously.'
' The storm also caused flooding in Washington, D.C., blew the windows out of skyscrapers in Philadelphia and destroyed a house in Piscataway, N.J. A truck driver died when his tractor-trailer overturned in high winds on a bridge connecting Elizabeth, N.J., and New York City.'
' A New York City woman died after being hit by a steel beam blown off a water tower.'
' In Wyckoff, N.J., high winds knocked a power line onto a gas line, sparking a fire that forced the evacuation of 20 homes, according to police.'
' No houses were burned.'
' The cafeteria collapse occurred at the East Coldenham Elementary School in Newburgh at about 12:30 p.m., when from 113 to 125 students in first, second and third grades were eating lunch, said Newburgh police Chief John Kulisek.'
' State Police and survivors said they believed the school was hit by a tornado, but the National Weather Service said it could not confirm that until investigators went to the scene.'
' The center section of a cinder-block and glass wall fell in on the cafeteria, showering the pupils with glass and concrete.'
" ``You are talking about huge concrete blocks that fell on top of the kids,'' state police Lt. Robert Hughes said."
' Seven children ages 7 and 8 were killed and 18 others were injured, four critically, officials said.'
' In eastern Connecticut, more than 75,000 Northeast Utilities customers lost power in the afternoon, and 18,000 remained without power at 9 p.m., spokeman Jeffery Kotkin said.'
' Tornadoes were reported Wednesday in Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Kentucky, Ohio and Indiana.'
' A severe thunderstorm in Illinois claimed one life and caused several million dollars in damage.'
' Altogether, the storms were blamed for at least 27 deaths and more than 500 injuries over the two days.'
' In Alabama, Gov. Guy Hunt said he would ask President Bush to declare Huntsville a disaster area to open the door to millions of dollars in federal relief.'
' Mayor Steve Hettinger said no firm damage estimates were expected until Friday, but he put the number of homeless at 1,000.'
' Hunt assigned nearly 200 Guardsmen to assist in the cleanup and help law officers guard against looting.'
' Police spokeswoman Susan Williamson said there had been minor looting the night of the storm but no arrests.'
' The temperature, which had risen to 73 before the storm Wednesday, plunged into the 30s early Thursday while rescuers worked through the night under the glare of floodlights.'
' The lights, powered by generators, produced an eerie glow in a area that was otherwise largely without power.'
' Tall cranes lifted the heavy rubble, while workers with flashlights picked through the smaller pieces.'
' As daybreak came, people began returning to the scene, some to look for valuables in ravaged cars or businesses, others simply out of curiosity.'
' Many carried cameras or videocassette recorders.'
' Police Maj.'
' Robert Moder said there was no indication that anyone was left in the rubble.'
" ``We don't have any reports of people missing,'' he said Thursday morning."
' Moder said 463 people were injured and more than 150 of those required at least overnight hospital treatment.'
' Authorities had said 19 people were killed but later lowered the death toll by two.'
' All but one of the victims, who ranged in age from 7 to 67, were killed along Airport Boulevard, a busy thoroughfare that seemed to be a guide for the tornado on its deadly march.'
" The other victim perished on the city's outskirts, authorities said."
' Most of the dead were in apartments and stores that were torn into twisted wreckage, or in cars blown off the pavement.'
' The tornado seemed to catch everyone by surprise.'
" ``It was fast,'' said Lucy Lee Rusk, who moved to a Red Cross shelter after her apartment was battered by debris."
" ``It was like one big pop and that's when everything went''."
" The National Weather Service had issued a severe thunderstorm warning at 3:54 p.m., but the tornado struck with no real warning, said Brenda Page of the service's office."
' A tornado warning was broadcast at 4:39 p.m., two minutes after the twister was sighted on the ground at the old Huntsville airport.'
' Ms. Page said radar showed a strong storm but not the conditions usually visible during tornadoes.'
' Danny Cooper, director of the Alabama Emergency Management Agency, said three people were seriously injured in an earlier tornado that hit a home in Clay County in eastern Alabama.'
" He said a tornado in northwestern Alabama's Lauderdale County destroyed three homes."
' Alabama Power Co. reported Thursday that violent winds had battered the switchyard of the Farley Nuclear Power Plant near Dothan on Wednesday night, causing about three gallons of concentrated PCBs to spill.'
' A spokesman said no one was injured, the nuclear plant was not affected and a cleanup of the cancer-causing chemicals was under way .'
' AP891117-0002'
' AP-NR-11-17-89 2349EST'
' u a AM-AlabamaTornado 1stLd-Writethru a0720 11-17 0590'
' AM-Alabama Tornado, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0720,0603'
" Federal Relief OK'd; Governor Visits the Grieving"
" Eds: INSERTS 1 graf after 7th graf, `More than '... to UPDATE with Hunt asking flags be flown at half-staff, Marilyn Quayle to visit city; picks up 8th graf, `President Bush ...'"
' With AM-Storm-School, Bjt'
' LaserPhotos HUN4, MY1'
' By PAUL NEWBERRY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' HUNTSVILLE, Ala. (AP)'
' Federal aid was approved Friday for tornado-ravaged Huntsville, where 17 died and several hundred were injured or lost their homes, and Gov. Guy Hunt toured hospitals and visited with grieving families.'
" ``I've been around a lot of tornadoes, but I've not seen the type of damage on as broad a scale as I've seen this morning,'' Hunt said after a helicopter tour of the 10-mile-long path of destruction."
" State emergency management officials estimated the damage in excess of $100 million in the agency's letter to President Bush requesting a disaster declaration, said Terry Abbott, the governor's press secretary."
" ``I've never seen as much rubble from a tornado before,'' said Danny Cooper, the state agency's director."
' He listed 119 houses destroyed, 125 with minor damage, and three churches, two schools, 35 businesses and 10 public buildings either destroyed or suffering heavy damage.'
' Wind in the tornado was estimated at 250 mph when the twister hit Wednesday afternoon.'
" More than 400 people were injured, with about 80 still under care in hospitals when Hunt visited patients' rooms Friday."
' City officials said about 1,000 were left homeless.'
' Hunt asked that flags around the state be lowered to half-staff through Tuesday in memory of the victims, and Marilyn Quayle, wife of the vice president, planned to visit the battered city Saturday.'
' President Bush issued a disaster declaration Friday morning to clear the way for tornado victims to receive federal relief.'
' Cooper said about $1 million may be needed in the form of individual and family grants to provide clothing and temporary housing.'
' The federal government pays 75 percent of the cost and the state 25 percent.'
' Grant Peterson, associate director of the federal Emergency Management Agency, said Friday he hopes that offices can be opened Sunday to take applications for disaster relief.'
' He said assistance checks may be in the mail within a week.'
" FEMA's reaction time was criticized after South Carolina was struck by a hurricane."
' Police spokesman Ronnie Fudge said several truckloads of food had arrived but the city is running out of places to store the goods.'
' He urged that people donate money to relief agencies rather than send food.'
' Hunt visited privately Friday morning with families of some of the 17 killed in the tornado, The victims ranged in age from 7 to 67.'
' Two of the dead, John and Wanda Lewis, were found holding each other beneath a table, crushed by a collapsed ceiling at Gates Cleaners, where Lewis was manager.'
' Much of Westbury Mall was reduced to rubble by the tornado.'
" ``To look at that building, it's hard to understand why more people were not killed,'' Hunt said."
' Hunt also stopped at a school heavily damaged by the tornado.'
' A hole in one outside wall exposed a caved-in classroom.'
' Because the tornado struck at 4:30 p.m., most of the classrooms were empty and only six children were injured.'
' School personnel and painters in the building were credited with helping protect about 30 youngsters in extended hours and kindergarten day care programs.'
' Some children were moved into a closet for safety.'
" ``There were a lot of heroes, or more people would have been killed,'' said the governor ."
' AP891118-0136'
' AP-NR-11-18-89 2045EST'
' r a AM-AlabamaTornado 1stLd-Writethru a0610 11-18 0790'
' AM-Alabama Tornado, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0610,0645'
" Feds, State Promise Huntsville: `Whatever's Needed Will be Done'"
" Eds: LEADS with 7 grafs to UPDATE with Marilyn Quayle visit to Huntsville; picks up 4th graf, ``President Bush ''..."
' SUBS 11th graf, ``The state ...'
" ,'' to DELETE now-redundant first reference to Hunt ."
' By PAUL NEWBERRY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' HUNTSVILLE, Ala. (AP)'
" Marilyn Quayle, wife of Vice President Dan Quayle, praised the heroism of this tornado-ravaged northern Alabama city's residents during a visit Saturday."
" Mrs. Quayle personally thanked workers cleaning up the debris left by Wednesday's twister and visited some of the injured at Crestwood Hospital during her 2-hour tour."
' The tornado left 18 people dead, hundreds injured and up to 1,000 homeless.'
' The youngest victim, a 2-year-old girl, died Friday after being taken off life-support systems.'
' ``The community is filled with heroes _ people who without ...'
" regard to their own personal danger helped other citizens so that they could survive,'' said Mrs. Quayle, who was accompanied by Gov. Guy Hunt and U.S."
' Sens. Howell Heflin and Richard Shelby.'
' Mrs. Quayle, who made similar visits to San Francisco after the Oct. 17 earthquake and Charleston, S.C., after Hurricane Hugo, also praised corporations that have made donations to help Huntsville recover.'
' Federal and state officials have promised to do whatever is necessary to help Huntsville, even if disaster relief funds are squeezed by Hurricane Hugo and the quake.'
" ``We're here to get the job done,'' Grant Peterson, associate director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said Friday."
" ``Whatever's needed will be done''."
" President Bush declared Huntsville a disaster area, but FEMA may have to do some financial juggling to deal with this year's rash of natural disasters."
' Parts of eight states have been declared eligible for federal relief.'
' ``Any one disaster like Hugo or the earthquake in California exceeds ...'
" what we have in a normal year alone,'' Peterson said."
' Congress provided $1.1 billion in supplemental funds to FEMA after Hugo devastated the Caribbean and the East Coast in September, and $1.2 billion following the earthquake that ravaged parts of northern California on Oct. 17.'
' So far, about $1.3 billion has been allocated to disaster victims.'
" Peterson said he's not yet concerned about FEMA meeting its financial obligations."
" ``I would say that to ask for any more money at this point would be premature,'' he said."
' Peterson and his aides urged patience during the arduous task of processing thousands of relief requests from the Huntsville area.'
" ``If everything works well, in seven to 10 days we should get the first checks out,'' Peterson said Friday."
" ``I'll make sure that we expedite these requests to meet the people's needs''."
' The state will have to ante up 25 percent of the cost of providing clothing and temporary housing for tornado victims, with the federal government pitching in the other 75 percent.'
' Gov. Hunt said he expected the Alabama Legislature to come up with whatever money is needed.'
" ``The state doesn't budget for disasters,'' said Danny Cooper, Alabama's emergency management director."
" ``We take care of them at the time''."
" Hunt stressed that government agencies won't be able to shoulder the entire load."
' He requested donations to agencies such as the American Red Cross, which set up a shelter for the homeless as rescue workers dug through the rubble in those desperate hours after the tornado struck.'
' The tornado hit Huntsville with devastating force _ winds were estimated at 250 mph _ and virtually no warning about 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, leaving a 10-mile-long path of destruction.'
' A shopping center and clusters of apartment buildings were leveled.'
' Cars were piled atop each other like the remnants of a demolition derby.'
' Cooper said 119 homes were destroyed and 125 had lesser damage.'
' Three churches, two schools, 35 businesses and 10 public buildings were either destroyed or suffered heavy damage.'
' Neighbors pitched in to help Debra McKay and her family pick through the rubble of their home.'
' The only things standing were the walls around two bathrooms and an adjacent hallway _ the area where Ms. McKay and her three children rode out the storm.'
" ``I know the Lord spared us,'' she said."
" ``I woke up a different person this morning''."
' Officials said several truckloads of food have rolled into Huntsville but the city is running out of places to store the goods.'
" ``There's a sense of thankfulness,'' Hunt said."
" ``It's heartwarming to see how people have come together''."
" Huntsville is home to NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center, the Army's Redstone Arsenal and a number of high-tech industries."
" Mayor Steve Hettinger said the city would be able to withstand the tornado's financial impact."
" ``Huntsville has a strong economy, a diverse economy,'' he said."
" ``That's not the source of our concern.''"
' LA111689-0160'
' 135664'
' November 16, 1989, Thursday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk'
' 631 words'
' ALABAMA TORNADO KILLS 14; 300 INJURED; OTHERS TRAPPED'
' From Associated Press'
' HUNTSVILLE, Ala .'
' A tornado slammed into a shopping district, a residential area and a school Wednesday, killing at least 14 people, injuring nearly 300 and trapping many others in their cars and homes, police said .'
' "Several people are still trapped in vehicles and apartment complexes and shopping areas," said police spokesman Ben Jennings after the twister touched down between 4 and 4:30 p.m. in this northeastern Alabama city .'
' Mayor Steve Hettinger said 14 deaths had been confirmed, with 285 people injured and about 500 displaced by the tornado that struck while city streets were filled with rush-hour traffic .'
" Gov. Guy Hunt, at the state's disaster center in Montgomery, said rescue teams with cranes and floodlights would search the rubble through the night for injured or dead."
' "It may be tomorrow before we have a final count," he said .'
' The governor said 50 National Guard troops were dispatched to the city, along with search and rescue equipment .'
' Witnesses said the downtown Jones Valley Elementary School, the Waterford Square and adjacent Queensbury apartment complexes were reduced to rubble by the tornado .'
' "The only thing left standing was a door frame," news photographer Mike Mercier said of the school, which was empty of staff and pupils when the tornado hit.'
' Police reported one person killed in a car outside the school .'
' Authorities said at least five were killed at Waterford Square apartments, three at a business school, Southern Junior College, which is located in a converted movie theater, and others in scattered areas .'
' "Rescuers are digging in the rubble," state trooper W.'
' L. Kelly said.'
' He said two people were killed when the twister hit house trailers in rural areas east of Huntsville.'
' The fifth death was reported near the shopping district .'
' "We\'ve called in troopers from around the state to help," Kelly said .'
" The city is home to Marshall Space Flight Center and the Army's Redstone Arsenal, but no serious damage was reported from the space agency or weapons testing center ."
' Telephone communication and electricity were disrupted by the tornadoes and WAAY-TV, the only station still broadcasting, reported widespread damage .'
' "It came in with a huge roar, an enormous amount of water, and it just started shaking and tearing at everything it could get hold of," said real estate broker Ike Carroll, who was in his car when the twister struck .'
' "It started picking cars up and pushing them around . . . some of them upside down, some of them just strewn around," he said .'
' Heavy overhead power lines "started snapping just like a circus performer would snap his whip," Carroll said .'
' "All of these heavy arcing, flashing lines that were just popping and snapping over the top of us . . . it was as if you were looking into an arc-welder, they were so bright," he said .'
' WAAY reported at least one person died when the roof of a business collapsed from winds that overturned cars in the area.'
' A nearby shopping center also was damaged .'
' Humana Hospital administrator David Miller said doctors were having difficulty reaching the hospital because of blocked roads .'
' The National Weather Service earlier said a tornado hit the east Alabama hamlet of Mellow Valley, severely damaging at least one home and causing some injuries.'
' Weather officials said people were trapped inside a collapsed house .'
" A spokeswoman for the Clay County Sheriff's Department said people were injured at one house in a rural area 30 miles east of Sylacauga ."
' Another tornado touched down about 1:30 p.m. as severe weather swept across much of Alabama and the National Weather Service placed most of the state under a tornado watch .'
' In Georgia, five people were injured, four critically, after a tornado struck two mobile home parks and an interstate highway near Palmetto .'
' Wire'
' TORNADOES; STORMS  ALABAMA; CASUALTIES; DISASTERS  ALABAMA; DISASTER VICTIMS'
