' AP880625-0142'
' AP-NR-06-25-88 1555EDT'
' r i AM-Philippines-Marcos 06-25 0374'
' AM-Philippines-Marcos,0387'
' Aquino Reported Ready to Let Marcos Return For Trial'
' MANILA, Philippines (AP)'
' President Corazon Aquino has agreed to allow Ferdinand Marcos to return to the Philippines so that the government can try him on charges of stealing billions of dollars, newspapers said Saturday.'
" The Manila Bulletin and The Manila Chronicle quoted Mrs. Aquino's press secretary, Teodoro Benigno, as saying that Mrs. Aquino made the assurance to two Swiss lawyers before she visited Switzerland earlier this month."
" The reports did not say when criminal charges against Marcos, Aquino's ousted predecessor, will be filed or when Mrs. Aquino will allow him to return."
' Mrs. Aquino has refused to allow Marcos into the Philippines, citing security reasons.'
' Marcos lives in exile in Hawaii.'
" Mrs. Aquino's government has said it will file criminal charges against Marcos, whom it has accused of stealing up to $10 billion in government funds."
" But the government has not done so because of Mrs. Aquino's refusal to let Marcos enter the country."
' Philippine law does not allow trial in absentia.'
' Swiss lawyers are helping the Philippine government trace money that Marcos and his family allegedly placed in Swiss bank accounts.'
' Marcos has been living in Hawaii since he was toppled by the civilian-military revolt that swept Mrs. Aquino to power in February 1986.'
" The Swiss government has frozen the assets of Marcos and his associates and has not released information on them to the Philippine government because of legal challenges posed by Marcos' lawyers and Swiss banks."
" The unidentified Swiss lawyers said the information will not be turned over ``unless and until there is an assurance that formal charges will be filed against him,'' Benigno was quoted as saying."
' Swiss law allows the lifting of banking secrecy laws only in case of criminal prosecution.'
' Mrs. Aquino has said she would allow Marcos to return now only if he and his family swore allegiance to her government and returned the money he allegedly stole during his 20-year rule.'
" She said later she would abide by any court decision if Marcos' lawyers in the Philippines raised the matter of his return to the courts."
" Benigno was quoted as saying that Mrs. Aquino ``has to accept the possibility of Marcos returning home.''"
' AP890519-0060'
' AP-NR-05-19-89 0707EST'
' u i PM-Philippines-Marcos 2ndLd-Writethru 05-19 0533'
' PM-Philippines-Marcos, 2nd Ld-Writethru,a0478,0546'
' Mrs. Aquino Reaffirms Ban on Marcos, Imelda Makes Radio Appeal'
' Eds: LEADS with 8 grafs to UPDATE with Imelda Marcos making appeal, details.'
" Picks up graf 5 pvs, `I regret ...'"
' With PM-Marcos'
' MANILA, Philippines (AP)'
' President Corazon Aquino said today she will not allow Ferdinand Marcos to come home to die and her government will not permit the ousted president to be buried on Philippine soil.'
" Marcos' wife Imelda appealed today to Mrs. Aquino to ``open her heart'' and allow the former president to return."
" Marcos' lawyer also asked the Philippine Supreme Court to order the return, pledging the ousted leader would cooperate with the Aquino administration."
' Marcos was reported in critical condition today in a Honolulu hospital after undergoing emergency kidney surgery.'
' Hospital officials said the 71-year-old former Philippine leader was suffering from renal, cardiac and pulmonary failure.'
' In Honolulu, Marcos aide Arturo Aruiza said Imelda had left the hospital to make a final appeal to Mrs. Aquino to allow her husband to die in his homeland.'
" Mrs. Aquino's daughter, Maria Elena Cruz, said the president had received no calls from Mrs."
' Marcos. Mrs.'
" Cruz serves as her mother's secretary."
' In a statement broadcast today by the pro-Marcos radio station DZEC, Imelda said she was trying to contact the presidential office ``to make a last appeal to Madam Corazon Aquino to open her heart and let Ferdinand come home because he is in very serious condition.'
" ``This is for reconciliation, this is what's best for the country,'' Imelda said."
" ``I'd like to ask our people to pray that Marcos may continue to live''."
" Mrs. Aquino told reporters earlier that she was sorry to hear that Marcos' condition had deteriorated ``and I pray that he will be able to recover''."
' ``I regret to inform Mrs.'
' Marcos, if indeed she is asking me for reconsideration, because as I have said in the past, much as I agree that Mr.'
" Marcos has his rights, I still have to consider also the rights and interests of millions of Filipinos,'' Mrs. Aquino said."
" ``I have already said in the past that we will not allow his remains to be brought back here, and we have already taken plans to avoid any untoward incidents,'' she added."
' Mrs. Aquino succeeded Marcos after the 1986 uprising that toppled his administration and forced him into exile in Hawaii.'
" Today, the Manila Stock Exchange's composite index fell to 1,084.53 from Thursday's close of 1,102.97."
" Traders said rumors of Marcos' death triggered a selling wave shortly before noon."
' In Honolulu, Marcos aide Arturo Aruiza said Mrs.'
' Marcos planned to make one last appeal to Mrs. Aquino to allow her husband to return home.'
" Rafael Ileto, Mrs. Aquino's national security advisor, said granting such a request was still an option but, ``I doubt very much that it will be one of the solutions''."
" Ileto, who met with Mrs. Aquino for a half-hour today, said Marcos no longer posed a threat to the nation but his followers ``can cause disruptions of normal functions''."
' Ileto, a retired vice chief of staff and former Defense Minister, said the 160,000-member armed forces was capable of quelling any unrest by Marcos supporters .'
' AP890519-0117'
' AP-NR-05-19-89 1438EST'
' u i AM-Philippines-Marcos Bjt 05-19 0584'
' AM-Philippines-Marcos, Bjt,0600'
" Aquino Refuses Imelda's `Last' Appeal for Marcos to Die at Home"
' LaserPhoto HU1'
' By ROBERT H. REID'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MANILA, Philippines (AP)'
" President Corazon Aquino on Friday refused to allow Ferdinand Marcos to return home to die and said her government won't permit him to be buried here despite ``a last appeal'' from his wife."
' The 71-year-old Marcos was in critical condition Friday in a Honolulu hospital after emergency kidney surgery.'
' Hospital officials said the ousted leader was suffering from renal, cardiac and pulmonary failure.'
" Marcos' wife, Imelda, broadcast an appeal Friday to Mrs. Aquino to allow her husband to die in his homeland, and his supporters threatened mass protests if the request is rejected."
" But Mrs. Aquino refused to withdraw her ban on Marcos, and the Philippine Supreme Court rejected a petition from the former president's lawyer, Juan David, to order the return."
' Marcos has lived in Hawaii since he was ousted three years ago in a popular uprising that propelled Mrs. Aquino to power.'
' ``I would like first of all to convey to the family of Mr.'
" Marcos that I do pray that he will still recover from this latest critical illness,'' Mrs. Aquino said."
" ``I regret very much it is not possible for us to allow him to return''."
" She said she has ``said in the past that we will not allow his remains to be brought back here, and we have already taken plans to avoid any untoward incidents''."
' Mrs. Aquino, whose government has survived six coup attempts, has cited national security in refusing previous requests.'
' In a statement broadcast by a pro-Marcos radio station, Mrs.'
' Marcos said she has tried to telephone Mrs. Aquino from Hawaii but was told the president was busy.'
" Maria Elena Cruz, Mrs. Aquino's daughter and personal secretary, said the president received no calls from Mrs."
' Marcos. Mrs.'
" Marcos said she was trying to contact the president ``to make a last appeal to Madame Corazon Aquino to open her heart and let Ferdinand come home because he is in very serious condition''."
" ``My countrymen, I am appealing to each and every one of you to pray that, hopefully, Mrs. Aquino will know that bringing home Marcos will bring true reconciliation, true peace and unity for our country,'' Mrs."
' Marcos said.'
" ``This is what's best for the country''."
' Mrs. Aquino had said earlier: ``I regret to inform Mrs.'
' Marcos, if indeed she is asking me for reconsideration, because as I have said in the past, much as I agree that Mr.'
" Marcos has his rights, I still have to consider also the rights and interests of millions of Filipinos''."
" When told of Mrs. Aquino's statement, Mrs."
' Marcos said ``We are aware, but I am a believer and I am an optimist.'
" I know miracles can happen''."
' Marcos supporters, meanwhile, announced they would hold rallies Saturday to pray for his recovery.'
" Pro-Marcos leaders warned the former president's death in exile would trigger demonstrations."
" ``We expect tactical alliances in this nationwide mass action,'' said pro-Marcos lawyer Oliver Lozano."
" ``We refer to the tactical alliances of the military, labor sector and student sector''."
" But the chief of staff, Gen. Renato de Villa, said the armed forces would accept Mrs. Aquino's decision and was prepared to block any attempts by the opposition to foment trouble."
" ``We will do everything in our power to see to it that law and order prevail,'' de Villa told reporters."
" ``We will follow any decision by the executive branch.''"
' AP890710-0170'
' AP-NR-07-10-89 2059EST'
' r i AM-Germany-Aquino 07-10 0338'
' AM-Germany-Aquino,0347'
' Aquino Asks for Economic Aid for the Philippines'
' BONN, West Germany (AP)'
' President Corazon Aquino of the Philippines on Monday asked government and industrial leaders to expand economic ties with her nation.'
' Mrs. Aquino, on the first stop of her weeklong three-nation European tour, met with West German President Richard von Weizsaecker, Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher and other officials.'
' Mrs. Aquino, comparing the task of strengthening the heavily indebted Philippine economy to the recovery of West Germany after World War II, asked that Germany share its experience with her homeland.'
" ``We have tried by sound fiscal policies not to buy recovery at the price of inflation, nor debt relief at the price of national honor,'' she said in a speech to the West German Chamber of Industry and Trade."
" ``We have paid as careful attention to the consequences of runaway inflation and devaluation as Germany in the light of her own experiences between the wars,'' she said."
" Mrs. Aquino said the Philippines' debt was projected to increase to $29 billion by year's end but that much was money that ``was in fact stolen by the previous government'' of ousted dictator Ferdinand Marcos."
" She said that since her government took over in 1986, the country's growth rate of minus 10 percent under Marcos in 1985 had improved to a rate of plus 6.7 percent by 1988."
" ``What we need to complete the equation are two elements essential to the German recovery _ debt relief and investments,'' Mrs. Aquino said."
' During a state banquet in the evening, Weizsaecker told Mrs. Aquino her visit would further strengthen relations between West Germany and the Philippines.'
' Weizsaecker said the Philippines have had good results in trade with West Germany, and assured Mrs. Aquino that the barrier-free market the European Economic Community plans for 1992 will not lock out trade with other countries.'
' Mrs. Aquino, who arrived in West Germany on Sunday, will meet with Chancellor Helmut Kohl on Tuesday before departing for Paris.'
' She also is to visit Belgium .'
' AP900408-0059'
' AP-NR-04-08-90 2117EDT'
' u i AM-Philippines-Reform 1stLd-Writethru a0691 04-08 0763'
' AM-Philippines-Reform, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0691,0785'
' Controversy Raises Doubts About Commitment To Land Reform'
' An AP News Analysis'
" Eds: SUBS one graf for 12th graf `Lawmakers on'... to CORRECT to Commission on Appointments, sted on Appoints; pickup graf 13 `Despite the...'"
' By ROBERT H. REID'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MANILA, Philippines (AP)'
" The resignation of the land reform secretary raises doubts about President Corazon Aquino's commitment to agrarian reform and dramatizes conflicts in a government criticized for lack of vision."
' The controversy climaxed Thursday with the resignation of Secretary-designate Florencio Abad, 35, whose nomination was opposed by the pro-Aquino Struggle of the Democratic Filipino Party.'
' Handling of the controversy highlighted all the inconsistencies for which Mrs. Aquino has been criticized: lack of clear priorities; tactical blundering; and the strong influence of her relatives over national policy.'
" It also reinforced the suspicion among liberals that for all her rhetoric, Mrs. Aquino does not share the deep commitment to social change which they expected when she took power in the 1986 ``people power'' uprising against the late Ferdinand Marcos."
" ``The sincerity of Corazon Aquino is being seriously questioned,'' wrote columnist Ninez Cacho-Olivares in the Philippine Daily Inquirer."
" Land reform, ``the centerpiece program of her administration, is dead''."
" Abad's troubles began in February when he tried unsuccessfully to block the lease of government land in Cavite province to Japan's Marubeni Corp., for an industrial park."
' Although the deal was approved by the National Development Corp., Abad, a former congressman, said the land should be distributed to peasants under the agrarian reform program.'
" The Department of Trade and Industry said the Marubeni deal was crucial to attracting much-needed foreign investment for the government's industrialization program."
' But the Department of Agrarian Reform said if the Cavite land was exempted, hundreds of landlords would try to have their property declared as a potential industrial site to avoid losing title.'
' The presidential staff finally worked out a compromise under which farmers would be offered either land or a cash settlement.'
' Abad reluctantly agreed to the formula under repeated orders from Mrs. Aquino.'
" Abad's firm stand, however, alarmed landowners in Congress, who floated rumors in the press that the Agrarian Reform Department was riddled with Communists."
" Lawmakers on the Commission on Appointments who belong to the pro-Aquino Struggle of the Democratic Filipino Party blocked Abad's confirmation through eight hearings until he finally resigned."
" Despite the party's ``victory,'' poltical damage to it and Mrs. Aquino was considerable."
" The Manila press transformed Abad into a folk hero, depicting him as the champion of the farmer against political barons of the Struggle of the Democratic Filipino Party, dubbed ``Landlord-Dominated Party''."
" ``Worry not about Abad's destiny, Mrs."
" President,'' wrote columnist Carol Arguillas in The Manila Chronicle."
" ``Worry about yours and how you blew the last chance'' for liberal support."
" Mrs. Aquino pledged publicly to work for Abad's confirmation, but her lobbying appeared ineffectual."
" Abad's strongest opponents included politicians who consistently support Mrs. Aquino, leading to speculation she was not disappointed when he departed."
" Abad's opponents included her younger brother, Rep. Jose ``Peping'' Cojuangco, who wields considerable influence in government."
" ``There is no way Cory Aquino will challenge Peping,'' said one Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity."
' Mrs. Aquino comes from a landlord family.'
' She and her brothers and sisters are partners in a 14,500-acre sugar plantation in Tarlac province.'
" Rather than break up the estate, they used a legal option and created a ``profit-sharing'' plan for the tenants."
" The Abad controversy was the latest in a series of blows to the agrarian reform program, once touted as the ``centerpiece'' of the administration."
' Last year, Agrarian Reform Secretary Philip Juico resigned after disclosures that his department paid vastly inflated sums for marginal land.'
' His successor, Miriam Defensor Santiago, was repeatedly rejected by the Commission on Appointments, only to be reappointed until Mrs. Aquino replaced her with Abad on Dec. 31.'
' No reason for the change was given.'
' But Mrs. Santiago claims she did not display sufficient public loyalty to Mrs. Aquino during a coup attempt in early December.'
' Agrarian reform was widely seen as a means for breaking the power of landlord families and uplifting the livelihood of millions of peasants.'
' The program was advertised as essential in curbing the 21-year-old rural-based Marxist insurgency.'
' Mrs. Aquino proclaimed a land reform program in 1987 but left details to Congress.'
' The final bill contained so many pro-landlord loopholes that several of its original sponsors, including Abad, voted against it .'
" EDITOR'S NOTE"
' Robert H. Reid has been the AP bureau chief in Manila since September 1986 .'
' AP900829-0044'
' AP-NR-08-29-90 0838EST'
' r i PM-Philippines 08-29 0338'
' PM-Philippines,0348'
' Aquino Calls for Peace Talks With Communist Rebels, Rebellious Troops'
' By EILEEN GUERRERO'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MANILA, Philippines (AP)'
' President Corazon Aquino today reversed a long-held policy and said she was willing to negotiate cease-fires with Communist guerrillas and former soldiers who have staged coup attempts.'
' Mrs. Aquino also invited the opposition to join the talks, including her most outspoken critic, Sen. Juan Ponce Enrile.'
' Manila has been rocked by almost daily explosions.'
' Although no one has claimed responsibility for the blasts, the government has blamed them on former soldiers who have repeatedly tried to toppled Mrs. Aquino in coup attempts.'
' The Communist rebels have been waging a 21-year rebellion to establish a Marxist state.'
' The last cease-fire with them collapsed in early 1987.'
' Sen. Wigberto Tanada called for a truce between the government and the Communist rebels after a major earthquake in the Philippines on July 16, but Mrs. Aquino rejected the proposal.'
" On Tuesday, a pro-Aquino senator, Orlando Mercado, urged Mrs. Aquino to put aside differences with her political foes and begin to discuss the nation's security problems and economic woes."
' Enrile said he was willing to reconcile with Mrs. Aquino, who fired him as defense minister after he was implicated in a coup attempt in November 1986.'
' Mrs. Aquino said in a statement today that Mercado and Enrile are welcome to join discussions now being held by a committee of Cabinet members.'
' Defense Secretary Fidel Ramos has adamantly refused any cease-fire with the Communist guerrillas since November 1986 when the Aquino government negotiated with the rebels during a 60-day truce.'
' Ramos, a member of the Cabinet committee, has been credited with crushing six coup attempts against Mrs. Aquino.'
' Communists have accused him of whipping up threats of another coup attempt against Mrs. Aquino so that the civilian leadership would become indebted to him.'
' Ramos has denied all allegations.'
" The last cease-fire with the rebels collapsed in January 1987 after troops fired on farmers demonstrating outside Mrs. Aquino's office for land reform ."
' LA052089-0075'
' 59513'
' May 20, 1989, Saturday, Home Edition'
' Part 1; Page 5; Column 2; Foreign Desk'
' 573 words'
' AQUINO RULES OUT RETURN OF MARCOS, EVEN FOR BURIAL'
' By CHARLES P.'
' WALLACE, Times Staff Writer'
' MANILA'
' President Corazon Aquino said Friday that for security reasons she would not permit deposed President Ferdinand E.'
' Marcos to be buried in the Philippines .'
' Marcos was reported to be in "very critical condition" in Honolulu, where he has lived in exile since his ouster in 1986.'
' Hospital officials there said that he rallied slightly Friday but remained in extremely critical condition.'
' The 71-year-old former president has been suffering from heart, lung and kidney disorders as well as pneumonia .'
' His frail body attached to a respirator and a hemodialysis blood-cleansing machine, Marcos is unconscious most of the time but occasionally shows faint signs of life, doctors in Hawaii said .'
' Medical sources said that he is being treated with antibiotics and heart medication but that he could die at "any time" .'
" Radio stations here broadcast hourly reports on Marcos' condition."
" Philippine officials were asked repeatedly whether the Aquino government's refusal to allow Marcos to return to the country would remain in effect after his death ."
" One radio station broadcast an interview with Marcos' wife, Imelda, at the St. Francis Medical Center in Honolulu, where she was said to be maintaining a vigil at his bedside."
' She was quoted as appealing to Aquino to "open her heart" and allow Marcos to return to the Philippines .'
" Aquino said she would not alter her position but that she had prayed for Marcos' recovery ."
' "I regret to inform Mrs.'
' Marcos that as much as I agree that Mr.'
' Marcos has his rights, I still have to consider also the rights and the interests of millions of Filipinos," Aquino told reporters at the presidential palace .'
' "I have said . . . in the past that we will not allow his remains to be brought back here, and we have already taken plans to avoid any untoward incident" .'
" Nonetheless, Marcos supporters announced that they will march through the capital today to support the former president's demand that he be allowed to die in the Philippines ."
' Despite charges that Marcos and his inner circle looted the government treasury of billions of dollars, the former president still has a significant following here.'
' In the Philippines, personal loyalty is considered a sacred debt .'
' Attempted Coups'
' Government officials have accused Marcos supporters of taking part in at least two attempted coups against the Aquino government .'
" Aquino evidently is concerned that even after death, the return of Marcos' remains could spark violence or galvanize opposition to her government ."
" Aquino's national security adviser, Rafael Ileto, told reporters Friday that the Philippine army is prepared for any emergency that might be provoked by the death of the former president ."
' He was quoted as saying that while Marcos is no longer a threat to the government, his supporters "can still cause disruption" .'
" Marcos' mother, Josefa, died a year ago, but because Marcos has been barred from this country, the family refuses to have her remains interred."
' A newspaper advertisement published on the first anniversary of her death May 4 said, "funeral arrangements will be announced" .'
' Marcos and his wife have been indicted by a federal grand jury in the United States on charges of racketeering, fraud and extortion.'
' Marcos has been excused from appearing in court up to now because of his failing health.'
' Imelda Marcos is free on $5 million bail .'
' Times staff writer Ron Harris, in Honolulu, contributed to this story .'
' Photo, Imelda Marcos at Honolulu hospital where her husband, Ferdinand, is clinging to life.'
' Associated Press'
' AQUINO, CORAZON; MARCOS, IMELDA; MARCOS, FERDINAND E; EXILES  PHILIPPINES; HEADS OF STATE'
' LA101390-0087'
' 291853'
' October 13, 1990, Saturday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk'
' 632 words'
' PHILIPPINES / COUP MANIA;'
' REVOLT IS OVER, BUT DANGER REMAINS'
' By BOB DROGIN, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' MANILA'
" The quick collapse of a bizarre military revolt on the Philippines' second-largest island leaves President Corazon Aquino's beleaguered government with a muddied victory at best and clear danger signs ahead ."
" Analysts here say Aquino's immediate use of small bombers and artillery to end a pocket rebellion led by renegade army Col. Alexander Noble on the north coast of Mindanao helps counter oft-heard criticism that her four-year-old government is indecisive and inept ."
' And despite widespread fears that the Oct. 4-6 uprising would quickly spread to military garrisons on other islands and become a major threat to Aquino, leaders of the rightist military underground failed to move .'
' "It was the coup attempt that didn\'t catch fire," one Western diplomat said.'
' "It sort of fizzled before anything could happen" .'
" But he and other diplomats see little benefit for Aquino's battered image overseas ."
' "The international consequence is people saying, \'Yet another revolt in the Philippines\'.'
' It\'s like she\'s under a perpetual onslaught," he said .'
' Moreover, questions linger as to how Noble and about 350 rebel troops so easily evaded a much-publicized military manhunt to drive 140 miles from their mountain sanctuary, pass unhindered through at least 10 military checkpoints and seize two military camps, including the command post of the general who had been ordered to capture him  all without firing a shot .'
" Noble, once chief of staff of Aquino's own security detail, quickly linked up with Reuben Canoy, a local politician who heads the so-called Mindanao Independence Movement ."
" The resource-rich island has spawned secession groups since the 16th Century  though Canoy's is the first to print fake passports and currency based on crude counterfeits of U.S."
' $5 bills .'
' "The whole thing was kind of a farce," one Asian diplomat said.'
' "Only in the Philippines" .'
' Noble, best known for his long goatee and red stocking cap, quickly surrendered with most of his motley army of soldiers and Higaonon tribal militiamen after two World War II-vintage T-28 planes, called Tora Toras here, bombed and strafed one of the camps.'
" One plane later crashed and the pilot drowned, the revolt's only fatality ."
' Aquino has now survived two major coup attempts and half a dozen assorted and aborted military mutinies.'
' Most ended in embarrassing standoffs or dragged on for days, as top military leaders hedged on ordering troops to fire on other soldiers.'
' In one case, mutineers were ordered to do push-ups and attend Bible class as punishment .'
' "This time was a different government response altogether, which Noble clearly had underestimated," said University of the Philippines political scientist Alex Magno.'
' "He expected another standoff and hoped for other camps to defect.'
' He got bombed instead" .'
' After the revolt, the government toughened its anti-coup law, boosting the maximum penalty from 12 years to life in prison.'
' Aquino\'s spokesman, Tomas Gomez III, urged other rebel leaders to take "the honorable way out"  suicide .'
" Ironically, Noble made his move on the day a presidential fact-finding board issued a long-awaited 609-page report on the causes of last December's coup attempt in Manila, which left more than 100 people dead ."
' After 332 witnesses, 226 sworn statements and 4,100 documents, the so-called Davide Commission concluded that coup attempts are likely to continue  but unlikely to succeed  for the indefinite future .'
" Commission member Delfin Lazaro estimated that 70 officers involved in last December's coup attempt, which came closest to toppling Aquino, are still at large and still plotting ."
' "It\'s going to be very difficult for them to get the critical mass to launch a successful coup," he said.'
' "But they\'ll keep trying.'
' What else can they do"?'
' Photo, Renegade army Col. Alexander Noble after his surrender.'
' He led the latest in a long string of attempts to bring down Corazon Aquino.'
' Agence France-Presse'
' PHILIPPINES  REVOLTS; PHILIPPINES  GOVERNMENT; PHILIPPINES  ARMED FORCES; AQUINO, CORAZON; GUERRILLAS  PHILIPPINES'
' LA120189-0122'
' 142393'
' December 1, 1989, Friday, Home Edition'
' Metro; Part B; Page 3; Column 1; Metro Desk'
' 392 words'
' AQUINO ALLIES, FOES IN CONFRONTATION AT CONSULATE'
' By HECTOR TOBAR, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' As a military coup attempt unfolded in their homeland 7,000 miles away, supporters of the rebellious soldiers engaged in a shouting match Thursday night with supporters of President Corazon Aquino at the Philippine Consulate in Los Angeles .'
' About 30 members of the Filipino-American Movement for a Better Philippines held a candlelight vigil outside the consulate on Wilshire Boulevard to express sympathy with the coup led by officers linked to renegade Lt.'
' Col. Gregorio Honasan .'
' "We are calling for Mrs. Aquino to step down immediately," said Milo Castelo, 45, a Los Angeles attorney.'
' He said the Aquino government is "inept and incompetent" and guilty of "rampant corruption" .'
' Castelo and a handful of the protesters then entered the office building and took the elevator to the 12th-floor consulate, where a coalition of four Filipino groups in Los Angeles that support the Aquino government had just completed a press conference .'
' Half a dozen television news crews watched as the anti-government protesters confronted the acting consul general for the Philippines in Los Angeles, Willy C. Gaa .'
' "We are in sympathy with the coup in the Philippines"! announced Eli Swing, 49, a Los Angeles real estate agent .'
' The consul general remained silent, glaring at the protesters .'
' But Danny Lamila, a representative of the Philippines Liberal Party, loudly defended the government .'
' "These people staging the coup are criminals," Lamila yelled.'
' "They are fugitives from justice"!'
' After a few minutes, the 20 Aquino supporters in the room began chanting "Cory!'
' Cory"! The anti-government protesters then left the consular offices and order was restored .'
' Greg Santillas of the Campaign for Democracy and Independence said he believes that most of the estimated 350,000 Filipinos living in Los Angeles County oppose the military coup .'
' "We\'re here not only to support the president, but also the democratic institutions," he said.'
' "The military is a dangerous leftover from the dictatorship (of Ferdinand Marcos).'
' We don\'t want the government to be a hostage to the military" .'
" Also present at the press conference was Andrea Aquino, 50, the niece of assassinated Marcos opponent Benigno Aquino, Cory Aquino's husband ."
' "I support democracy and the government against the coup," she said.'
' "I think it\'s about time these renegades are punished" .'
' Photo, Aquino foe Rosita Labello shouts at Danny Lamila, a representative of the Liberal Party.'
' In middle is Willy Gaa, acting consul general.'
' Photo, About 30 protesters stand vigil outside the Philippine Consulate in support of rebel officers.'
' ROBERT DURRELL / Los Angeles Times'
' AQUINO, CORAZON; FILIPINO AMERICAN MOVEMENT FOR A BETTER PHILIPPINES; PHILIPPINES  REVOLTS; PHILIPPINES  ARMED FORCES; FILIPINOS  LOS ANGELES; DEMONSTRATIONS  LOS ANGELES'
' LA120389-0170'
' 143394'
' December 3, 1989, Sunday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk'
' 518 words'
" REBELS 'HAVE RIGHT' TO ACT, LAUREL SAYS;"
" PHILIPPINES: CORAZON AQUINO'S VICE PRESIDENT REFUSES TO CONDEMN THE INSURRECTION."
' AND HE PREDICTS THAT IT MAY LEAD TO CIVIL WAR .'
' By BOB DROGIN, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' HONG KONG'
' Philippine Vice President and opposition leader Salvador H. Laurel declined Saturday night to condemn the armed insurrection in his country and said the rebels "have the right" to try to seize power .'
" Laurel also said that the rebels will not surrender to President Corazon Aquino's forces, as she has demanded."
' He predicted that the fighting may turn to civil war if reported rebel reinforcements arrive from Cebu, Mindanao and other islands .'
' "I don\'t think this is going to end right away," he said in a suite in the Peninsula Hotel here.'
' "I think it\'s going to be a long, protracted thing, even civil war" .'
' Although he grinned broadly and laughed often during the interview, Laurel denied that he was "cheering" for the rebels.'
' He refused, however, to condemn their use of violence against a constitutionally elected government .'
' "I don\'t want to prejudge their goals or objectives," he said .'
' "Everybody should try to win with a ballot rather than a bullet," he added.'
' "But democracy does not preclude that as a last resort" .'
' Laurel, who is known as Doy, broke with Aquino shortly after they took office in 1986 following a popular uprising that toppled former President Ferdinand E.'
' Marcos. Since then, Laurel has criticized Aquino frequently in his role as head of the opposition Nacionalista Party .'
' Laurel said he was in London early Friday when the Philippine fighting began.'
" He flew to Hong Kong but was stranded here with scores of journalists because the Philippines' two international airports, in Manila and Cebu, have been closed since the fighting began ."
' Laurel said 18 Nacionalista leaders were meeting at the Intercontinental Hotel in Manila late Saturday despite the presence of rebel holdouts in the hotel.'
' He called the group his party\'s "junta," but said they have no ties to the rebels .'
' Laurel criticized Aquino for asking the United States to help bolster her beleaguered forces Friday.'
' U.S. officials have said F-4 Phantom jets flew over rebel aircraft to keep them grounded but did not drop bombs or fire .'
' But Laurel said the U.S. fighter-bombers destroyed a Philippine air force fuel dump and other facilities at Sangley Point and fired rockets that killed civilians near Camp Aguinaldo, the armed forces headquarters .'
' Laurel added that Aquino now is "completely beholden" to the United States just as exploratory talks on renegotiating leases for Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Base, the two largest U.S. military facilities abroad, are beginning .'
" Laurel's companion, Homobono Adaza, a former member of Parliament under Marcos and a Nacionalista member, also defended the rebels ."
' "These are the reformist elements," he said.'
' "They are trying to reform the government" .'
' Laurel said the coup occurred because Aquino "failed to unite the nation" or the armed forces, leading to divided loyalties and fragmentation .'
' He said she also failed to enforce the law "against graft and corruption" and had failed to deliver critical services .'
' "There\'s a power shortage," he said.'
' "A rice shortage.'
' A transport crisis.'
' The people are fed up.'
' They\'re worse off than ever" .'
' LAUREL, SALVADOR; AQUINO, CORAZON; PHILIPPINES  REVOLTS; PHILIPPINES  GOVERNMENT; GUERRILLAS  PHILIPPINES; UNITED STATES  MILITARY AID  PHILIPPINES'
