' AP900615-0115'
' AP-NR-06-15-90 1353EDT'
' u a PM-OhioFlooding 5thLd-Writethru a0597 06-15 0760'
' PM-Ohio Flooding, 5th Ld - Writethru, a0597,0782'
' At Least Ten Dead in Ohio Flooding'
' Eds: Leads with 5 grafs to UPDATE with ten now dead, source of information.'
' Picks up 5th graf pvs: `Gov.'
" Richard ...'"
' By MARGARET CALDWELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SHADYSIDE, Ohio (AP)'
' Thunderstorms swept through central and eastern Ohio, causing flooding that killed at least ten people, left dozens missing and forced hundreds of others from their homes, officials said today.'
' Two creeks just outside this Ohio River village of 4,300 people overflowed when about 4 inches of rain fell Thursday night in about an hour.'
" ``It created a wall of water,'' said Jim Williams of the Ohio Emergency Management Agency."
" ``The problem we're having right now is accounting for the people we can't find''."
' Williams said 40 to 60 people remained unaccounted for at midday.'
" Belmont County's sheriff's Sgt. Bart Giesey said 10 people were confirmed dead."
' Gov. Richard Celeste declared a state of emergency and surveyed the area.'
' The raging waters knocked homes off their foundations and washed away a bar filled with people in Shadyside, an Appalachian Mountain foothill town.'
' Temporary morgues were set up at Bellaire City Hospital and a funeral home in Shadyside.'
' Four bodies were brought to the hospital from the Shadyside area, hospital spokesman Lawrence England said.'
' England said the four bodies were taken to the Bauknecht Funeral Home in Shadyside.'
' Patty Valloric, director of the funeral home, said seven bodies had been brought there.'
' The Shadyside Fire Department set up a command center at the Jefferson Elementary School to coordinate rescue efforts.'
' Command center spokeswoman Karen Bovek said officials had no complete death toll figure.'
' Authorities were searching for victims in rural areas.'
" ``You're talking miles and miles of country roads that haven't been gotten to yet,'' she said."
" ``It's a disaster here''."
' Shadyside _ about 10 miles south of Wheeling, W.Va.'
' _ is in Belmont County, a mostly hilly, rural area in eastern Ohio.'
' Acting Mayor James Amato said the storms created a deluge that knocked homes off their foundations.'
" ``There are a lot of trailers out in this area that got hit,'' he said."
" Belmont County Sheriff's Department spokeswoman Judy Phillips said a Shadyside bar full of people was washed away when water caved in the back wall."
' Two people were accounted for, she said.'
' But she could offer no estimate of how many were in the bar.'
' Shadyside Fire Chief Mark Badia said rescuers pulled people from three cars in Wegee Creek, which flows through Shadyside and into the Ohio River.'
" ``I don't know how to describe it ..."
" you've got to see it to believe it,'' Badia said."
' There also was flooding in Jefferson County, north of Belmont, and Licking County in central Ohio.'
' The Ohio departments of transportation and natural resources, the State Highway Patrol, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio and the American Red Cross are assisting state government in assessing the damage, Ohio Emergency Management Agency spokeswoman Stacie Gilg said.'
' About 200 residents were evacuated from their homes in central Ohio after 3 inches of rain fell in an hour, flooding streets and washing out rural roads.'
' Residents from Newark and Marne in Licking County spent Thursday night in three emergency shelters, said Licking County Disaster Services Agency spokesman Neil Snelling.'
' Sixty residents were from one street in Newark.'
" ``Nobody has been hurt, but everything is pretty wet here,'' Snelling said."
' The Newark Fire Department and other agencies evacuated residents in low-lying areas of Newark and the neighboring village of Marne, said Wayne Tresemer, Licking County Disaster Services director.'
" He said water was standing up to 5 feet deep in some streets on the city's east side, and the Newark Fire Department and other agencies used boats to evacuated some residents."
" Licking County was already among 14 Ohio counties covered in a disaster declaration issued by President Bush for storms earlier this month, and people who suffered losses from Thursday night's storms will also be eligible for assistance, Ms."
' Gilg said.'
' In Jefferson County, 50 to 60 residents were evacuated in Adena, where water was 6 to 8 feet deep in streets because of creek flooding.'
' Two inches of rain caused flooding in Franklin County in central Ohio and 3.75 inches of rain was dumped on Holmes County in north-central Ohio, the National Weather Service said.'
' Flood waters in most areas had subsided by Thursday night, the weather service and local authorities said.'
' The forecast for today called for a slight chance of thunderstorms in central and southern Ohio .'
' AP900615-0164'
' AP-NR-06-15-90 2245EDT'
' u a AM-FlashFlood 4thLd-Writethru a0736 06-15 1081'
' AM-Flash Flood, 4th Ld - Writethru, a0736,1112'
' Water Wall Hits Ohio Town; 11 Dead, 51 Missing'
" Eds: Leads with 12 grafs to UPDATE to show that missing persons all from flood area, describe location of victims, move up reference to 51 missing, DELETE comment of unnamed firefighter; Picks up 14th graf, `Some of ... '"
' LaserPhoto PG1-3; LaserColor PG100; LaserGraphic'
' By MARGARET CALDWELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SHADYSIDE, Ohio (AP)'
' Torrential thunderstorms sent a flash flood surging through a valley into this Ohio River town, killing at least 11 people, leaving 51 missing and scores of others homeless Friday, authorities said.'
' Raging floodwaters late Thursday swept homes off foundations and washed away cars.'
' About 200 people were reported evacuated in central Ohio.'
" ``The valleys are choked with debris,'' Gov. Richard Celeste told reporters after flying over the hilly Appalachian region in eastern Ohio."
" ``A wall of water wiped a path through the area''."
' The governor declared a state of emergency, and dispatched about 50 National Guardsmen to the area.'
' The Federal Emergency Management Agency declared Belmont County, which includes Shadyside, and Jefferson and Franklin counties disaster areas, making federal aid available to residents.'
' Seventeen counties now have been declared disaster areas because of flooding or tornadoes since May 29.'
' Ten bodies were taken to the Bauknecht Funeral Home in Shadyside, said Bob Bell, funeral director.'
' One body was taken to Bellaire City Hospital, he said.'
" Chuck Vogt, Belmont County coroner's investigator, also said there were 11 confirmed dead."
' Earlier, Fire Chief Mark Badia had said 14 adults and two children were dead.'
' The names of the victims have not been released.'
' County Sheriff Tom McCort, who said he was running the recovery effort, said 51 people in Shadysville and Meade Township, where the two creeks run south of the village, were missing as of 8:45 p.m.'
' The list was compiled through telephone inquiries with townspeople and relatives and interviews with people evacuated from the area.'
' About 200 people came and went from a Shadyside disaster center during the day, seeking news of missing friends and relatives.'
' Vogt said two bodies were found in the Ohio River and one was found in a field next to the river after water receded.'
' He said the rest were found in the creeks, which flow into the river.'
' Some of the bodies were taken to a funeral home that set up a temporary morgue in Shadyside, about 10 miles south of Wheeling, W.Va.'
' Officials from Ohio, West Virginia and the U.S.'
' Coast Guard were searching the Ohio River for survivors and bodies, and Badia said National Guardsmen were to continue searching the creeks throughout the night.'
' At least five houses along Wegee Creek were washed away, and two cars were floating in water in one of the basements.'
' Anything that was still standing was covered with at least 6 feet of debris such as trees, appliances and furniture.'
" The National Weather Service issued no flood warning before the disaster, although it did issue a flood watch, said Al Wheeler, deputy meteorologist in the bureau's Cleveland office."
' Weather service offices in Cleveland, Akron, Columbus and Pittsburgh showed the storm had diminished over eastern Ohio when it had actually intensified, Wheeler said.'
" Thursday night's thunderstorms caused flash flooding across a wide area of central and eastern Ohio, northern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania."
' The floods closed roads, damaged homes and forced hundreds of people to evacuate.'
' But no place was hit with anything approaching the ferocity of the flooding in Shadyside.'
' About 5.5 inches of rain fell between 7:30 p.m. and 11 p.m., turning two Ohio River tributaries outside the village of 4,300 people into dangerous torrents.'
' About 35 buildings, including a tavern, were damaged along Wegee Creek, and 50 buildings were hit by a flood along Pipe Creek, four miles south of Wegee Creek, said Dick Quinlin, Belmont County emergency services coordinator.'
" Part of the tavern was washed away when water caved in the back wall, said Judy Phillips, a sheriff's department spokeswoman."
' She said two patrons were accounted for, but she could offer no estimate of how many were inside at the time.'
' One man was found clinging to a bar stool, said state Sen. Robert Ney, whose district includes Shadyside.'
" ``I've never seen anything of this magnitude."
" There was no warning,'' Ney said."
' Rescuers pulled people from three cars in Wegee Creek, which flows through Shadyside and into the Ohio River, said Badia.'
" ``I don't know how to describe it."
" ... You've got to see it to believe it,'' Badia said."
' One resident, Robert Ramsey, said his wife, Rose, was crushed to death in their house by the water.'
' There was no complete accounting of deaths, said Karen Bovek, a spokeswoman at a Shadyside Fire Department command center set up an a school.'
" ``You're talking miles and miles of country roads that haven't been gotten to yet,'' she said."
" ``It's a disaster here''."
' There also was flooding in Jefferson County, north of Belmont, in Licking County in central Ohio, and in northwestern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania.'
" ``It's a pretty good mess, especially in the northern end of the county,'' said Clarence Weston, a dispatcher with the Marshall County Sheriff's Department in Moundsville, W.Va."
" ``We had 3.5 inches of rain in a two-hour period last night''."
' Most of the problems in West Virginia were confined to road closures and basement flooding.'
' At least 25 people were evacuated during the night in the Pittsburgh suburb of Etna, where some homes had up to 5 feet of water in their basements, said borough manager Bill Skertich.'
' They returned to their homes Friday.'
' Landslides were reported in the Pittsburgh area, and many city streets were closed during the storm.'
' The flooding was more serious in Licking County, Ohio.'
" Wayne Tresemer, the county's Disaster Services director, said water was standing up to 5 feet deep in some streets in the town of Newark, and the fire department and other agencies used boats to evacuate some residents."
' Two inches of rain caused flooding in Franklin County in central Ohio and 3.75 inches of rain was dumped on Holmes County in north-central Ohio, the National Weather Service said.'
' In Jefferson County, just north of Belmont County in the eastern part of the state, 50 to 60 residents were evacuated in Adena, where water was 6 to 8 feet deep in streets because of creek flooding.'
' Flood waters in most areas had subsided by Thursday night, according to authorities .'
' AP900616-0032'
' AP-NR-06-16-90 0428EDT'
' r a PM-FlashFlood-Scene Bjt 06-16 0543'
' PM-Flash Flood-Scene, Bjt,0561'
' Homes Swept Away, Muddy Streams Remain After Flash Flood'
" Eds: Gilg is cq in 16th graf, `At least ...' ."
' By RICH HARRIS'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SHADYSIDE, Ohio (AP)'
' Cement blocks were all that remained of homes, fallen branches stood where trees used to be and muddy streams meandered through the outskirts of this Ohio River town after a furious flash flood.'
' Residents donned shorts and hip-waders Friday to begin putting their lives back together after 5 inches of rain fell in 3 hours late Thursday, churning floodwaters that left at least 11 people dead and 51 others missing early today.'
' The shock had not worn off, said police officer Bruce Fink, whose bristly face bore signs of more than 20 hours on duty, including work at a temporary morgue set up at a funeral home.'
" ``We have counselors back there now, but we've lost whole families."
" It's just been devastating,'' he said Friday night."
" Fink said he feared there wouldn't be enough funeral homes to handle the dead in this eastern Ohio town of 4,300 people."
" Allan Hans called the flooding ``the devil's work''."
" ``I lost everything but my car and the clothes I'm wearing,'' he said."
' Hans said he was sitting in his trailer when he heard a branch crack and went to check out the noise.'
' He saw rushing water, ran to tell neighbors and moved his car.'
' The trailer was swept away by the time he returned home.'
' John and Sue Wright, whose home rests on the banks of Pipe Creek, estimated they lost about $20,000 worth of property.'
' ``I was one of the lucky ones.'
" What I lost, I can replace,'' Wright said."
' Although it was the center of rescue operations, downtown Shadyside suffered no apparent flood damage.'
" But it was a different story on the outskirts of town, in the heart of Ohio's richest coal fields."
' Cars were mired roof-deep in mud, and guardrails and chunks of concrete were torn from roads.'
" A 20-foot, 18-inch thick beam that held a sign leading to 3K's Bar near Pipe Creek was twisted like a pretzel by the force of what witnesses described as a wall of water."
' People moved rubble and made makeshift repairs to bridges that span McMann Creek, which links homes to Ohio Route 147.'
' Many bridges were washed away.'
' Small tractors and four-wheel-drive vehicles were the only means of transportation in much of the stricken area.'
' At least 170 members of the Ohio National Guard were called in to patrol and to help rebuild flood-swept roads, said Stacie Gilg, a spokeswoman for the Ohio Emergency Management Agency.'
' Disasters always bring out the curious, and this was no exception.'
' By Friday night, traffic jammed Ohio Route 7, which skirts the Ohio River and is the main north-south road through town.'
' Belmont County Sheriff Tom McCort said he suspected many of the vehicles belonged to sightseers.'
' McCort said there were no serious attempts at looting.'
' He said he was pleased with the assistance of young people.'
' One young man turned in a strongbox filled with valuable coins lost in the flood, the sheriff said.'
' ``The kid ...'
" handed me this box and it was unlocked,'' McCort said."
" ``It really made me feel good.''"
' AP900616-0123'
' AP-NR-06-16-90 2056EDT'
' u a AM-FlashFloods-Missing 06-16 0492'
' AM-Flash Floods-Missing,0506'
' Mother Clings to Hope that 12-Year-Old Daughter is Alive'
' With AM-Flash Floods, Bjt'
' By MARGARET CALDWELL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SHADYSIDE, Ohio (AP)'
' The mother of a 12-year-old girl swept away by a flash flood was clinging to hope that her daughter was alive but perhaps unable to get home, a family friend said Saturday.'
" Janice Trigg's daughter, Kerri, was among nearly three dozen still missing Saturday night, two days after the floods hit eastern Ohio."
" ``She keeps saying Kerri Jo may have amnesia, or she can't move to get help."
" That's a mother's hope,'' said the friend, Betty Kreiter, 67."
' Searchers for the missing used trained dogs to sniff through the rubble and along the banks of the Wegee and Pipe creeks, which empty into the Ohio River, in an effort that stretched five miles south of this town.'
' Workers also sifted through debris that collected at the Hannibal locks and dam on the Ohio River, about 25 miles south.'
' Relatives of the missing were staying with friends and family, said the Rev. Robert Gracey, who was counseling flood victims at a school turned into a relief center.'
" Kerri had been playing at a friend's house when the one-story home suddenly was washed away in the flood Thursday night."
' The friend, 9-year-old Amber Colvin, was swept down Wegee Creek and into the Ohio River, but survived a seven-mile ordeal by clinging to logs.Amber was released from a hospital Saturday after treatment for minor injuries.'
' She said she last saw Kerri when the two, alone in the house, jumped into a bathtub for safety in the storm.'
' The tub was washed into the creek.'
' Throughout the town, there were stories of fear, luck and close calls.'
' Deanna Hulderman, 48, said she and her husband, Clancey, were pulled under by Wegee Creek flood water at a bar but were reunited about a half-hour later.'
' Mrs. Hulderman said she, her husband and about seven others were in the 3Ks bar when a wall collapsed and water rushed through.'
' ``I saw my husband go under and get washed away.'
" He was yelling how much he loved me, and then I went under,'' Mrs. Hulderman said."
" ``I began praying `God, don't let me die like this,' and the next thing I knew I was standing on my feet, and the water went down''."
' Mrs. Hulderman said firefighters rescued her husband at the mouth of the creek near the Ohio River.'
' Capt. James Boling of the Ohio National Guard said local authorities told him some of the bar patrons remained unaccounted for.'
' Kathy Schramm, 37, said she, her husband and their two children fled their two-story house before water washed through.'
" When they returned, the basement and first floor were flooded, and the surrounding area ``looked like a big lake''."
" ``I looked up at a house on the hill, and it looked like it was on stilts on the water,'' Mrs. Schramm said ."
' AP900618-0018'
' AP-NR-06-18-90 0052EDT'
' u a AM-FlashFloods 4thLd-Writethru a0717 06-18 0668'
' AM-Flash Floods, 4th Ld - Writethru, a0717,0684'
' Search Continues for Missing in Ohio Flood'
" Eds: LEADS with 7 grafs to UPDATE with 20th victim found, number of missing dropping to 16; PICKS UP 7th graf, `Twenty-three ...'; DELETES outdated 14th graf pvs, `That left ...'"
' LaserPhoto XBLR1, XBLR3, XBLR5, XBLR7, LaserColor XBLR2'
' By RICH HARRIS'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SHADYSIDE, Ohio (AP)'
' The death toll from flash floods that swept through a rural area of eastern Ohio rose to 20 Sunday as searchers dug along two creeks and dived into the Ohio River.'
' Sixteen people remained missing.'
" Workers used shovels and picks to dig along the creek banks, and sifted through debris at places marked with red flags, where search dogs indicated they'd detected human scents, said National Guard Capt. Jim Boling."
' Divers worked where the two creeks empty into the Ohio.'
' Four bodies were found Sunday.'
' But two of those were not immediately identified, and the list of missing was not revised to account for them.'
" The number missing dropped to 16 with the other two bodies and the removal of two other names: a woman who called to say she was safe and a person who authorities weren't sure lived in the area, said coroner's investigator Chuck Vogt."
' The 20th victim was pulled from the mouth of Pipe Creek at the Ohio River, about seven miles south of Shadyside, Vogt said.'
' Another body was found in debris along Wegee Creek, and two bodies were found earlier in the Ohio, he said.'
" That brought the confirmed death toll in Thursday's floods to 20, including five children."
' Twenty-three dog teams from four states were searching for victims, said Boling.'
' The digging will continue at least through Tuesday, said Fire Chief Mark Badia.'
" ``The thing you find once you start into these brush piles and piles of trees are cars, and they have to be torn apart and searched separately,'' Badia said."
" ``Everything you turn up creates a different situation''."
' But Vogt said he doubted many of the missing would be found alive.'
" ``It's just been too long."
" I don't think there's anybody alive out there,'' he said."
" ``You can't swim out there that long in the Ohio River''."
' The Wegee and Pipe creeks overflowed Thursday night during storms that poured 5 inches of rain onto eastern Ohio in 3 hours.'
' The floods destroyed as many as 70 houses and damaged up to 40 others.'
' Authorities said Friday that 60 people were missing; some of those were later found dead, while others notified authorities that they were safe.'
' Officials also learned that some of those feared missing had moved out of the area.'
' Officials were comparing county property lists and data from the Census Bureau with information from residents and relatives, Boling said.'
' Investigators Sunday blamed the flash floods on an unusually heavy rainstorm that overwhelmed the designed flow capacities of threebridges over the creeks.'
' Badia said rainwater running down hillsides forced debris into the creeks, forming dams at each bridge.'
" The ``dams'' broke under the water pressure."
" ``Eventually the bridges couldn't hold any more."
" The debris broke loose, and that's when we got three big gushes of water,'' he said."
' As rescue efforts continued, the National Guard cleared roads and bridges leading into the stricken area.'
' Eighteen Ohio counties have been declared federal disaster areas since tornadoes and flooding first struck May 25.'
' Across the border in West Virginia, Gov. Gaston Caperton said Sunday he had no precise dollar figure on damage from flooding Friday along a five-mile stretch near New Martinsville and in nearby Ohio County, but estimated it will run into millions of dollars.'
' No deaths or serious injuries were reported.'
' Caperton toured flooded areas in Wheeling and the Doolin Run community near New Martinsville.'
" He said he saw ``tremendous devastation'' to hundreds of houses, house trailers and cars."
' State Public Safety Secretary Joseph Skaff estimated that repairing and replaceing bridges and roads will cost about $750,000.'
' National Guard soldiers helped with cleanup Sunday .'
' AP900618-0069'
' AP-NR-06-18-90 1205EDT'
' r a PM-FlashFloods 2ndLd-Writethru a0516 06-18 0699'
' PM-Flash Floods, 2nd Ld - Writethru, a0516,0713'
' Searchers Find 21st Flood Victim; Little Hope for Missing'
' Eds: SUBS lead and subs 5th graf, `The body ...'
' , with 2 grafs to UPDATE with authorities now saying 14 people are missing, sted 16; pick up 6th graf, `Four bodies .. .'
' LaserPhoto NY8'
' By BOB LEWIS'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SHADYSIDE, Ohio (AP)'
" The death toll from last week's flash floods mounted to 21 today when a body was found in the Ohio River, and authorities said there was little hope for the 14 people still listed as missing."
" ``It's just been too long."
" I don't think there's anybody alive out there."
" You can't swim out there that long in the Ohio River,'' said Chuck Vogt, Belmont County coroner's investigator."
' The search for the missing was suspended briefly this morning when a thunderstorm rolled through the area.'
" Heavy rain fell for about 45 minutes, swelling Wegee Creek, one of two creeks that overflowed in Thursday night's flash flood."
' By midmorning, the muddy creek was nearly crossing a road about three miles upstream from where the floods inflicted the most damage.'
' Lt. Dean Irvin of the Ohio Army National Guard said there were no immediate reports of additional property damage.'
" The body found this morning was in the Ohio River near Moundsville, W.Va., about 10 miles south of Shadyside, according to Chuck Vogt, Belmont County coroner's investigator."
' The number of names on the list of missing dropped from 18 to 14 with the identities of three victims and a call by one person alerting authorities that she was safe, Vogt said.'
' One of the recovered bodies remains unidentified.'
' Authorities are not ruling out the possibility that other people not on the list could be missing.'
' Four bodies were recovered Sunday.'
' Officials said Friday that 60 people were missing; some of those later were found dead, while others notified authorities that they were safe and officials learned that still more had moved out of the area.'
' Wegee and Pipe creeks overflowed during storms that dumped 5 inches of rain in 3 hours.'
' The floods destroyed as many as 70 houses and damaged up to 40 others.'
' Most of those whose homes and belongings were swept away by the wall of water will have to put their lives back together largely without benefit of insurance.'
" Few people in the coal-mining and steel-making area carried flood insurance, and homeowners' insurance will not cover damage from Thursday's flood, residents and insurers said."
" ``We didn't think we needed to have flood insurance."
' For what?'
' That creek never flooded.'
' Then this.'
" Everybody just got wiped out,'' said Julia Kulazenka."
' Rainwater running down hillsides had forced debris into the creeks and formed dams at bridges spanning them, Shadyside Fire Chief Mark Badia said.'
" ``Eventually the bridges couldn't hold any more."
" The debris broke loose, and that's when we got three big gushes of water,'' Badia said."
' The home Mrs. Kulazenka shared with her husband until his death last July was damaged as Wegee Creek raged out of control.'
' She said replacing a machine shop, garage, deck and automobiles she and her son owned would cost more than $80,000.'
" ``They told us homeowners' won't do us no good."
" So unless the government helps us rebuild, I don't know what I'll do with this place,'' Mrs. Kulazenka said."
' The Federal Emergency Management Agency said it will open an office Tuesday in Shadyside to accept applications from residents for low-interest loans and grants to help them rebuild.'
" Before the flood, land in the Wegee Creek valley fetched handsome prices, said Kulazenka's son, Charles Kulazenka."
' That was especially welcome to residents, many of whom were either retired or laid off from jobs in coal mines in Belmont County, where unemployment in April was 6.8 percent.'
' ``Ground was at a premium down here before this because it was just outside the city limits (of Shadyside).'
' It was quiet and peaceful and people were looking to buy and build new homes out here.'
" Now, you couldn't give it away,'' Kulazenka said."
" ``But we can't be bitter, though, because we've got our lives, and a lot of our neighbors, real close buddies, weren't that lucky.''"
' LA061590-0176'
' 234324'
' June 15, 1990, Friday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 2; Column 3; Late Final Desk'
' 386 words'
' 10 DEAD, DOZENS MISSING IN OHIO FLASH FLOODS'
' From Times Wire Services'
' SHADYSIDE, Ohio'
' A flash flood sent a wall of water 15 to 20 feet high rampaging through hill communities along the Ohio River, killing at least 10 people and leaving dozens missing, authorities said today .'
' Two creeks just outside this Ohio River village of 4,300 residents overflowed when thunderstorms dumped about 4 inches of rain Thursday night in about an hour .'
' "It created a wall of water," said Jim Williams of the Ohio Emergency Management Agency.'
' "The problem we\'re having right now is accounting for the people we can\'t find" .'
' Williams said 40 to 60 people were unaccounted for at midday .'
" Belmont County's sheriff's Sgt. Bart Giesey said 10 people were confirmed dead ."
' Gov. Richard F. Celeste declared a state of emergency and surveyed the area .'
' The raging waters knocked homes off their foundations and washed away a bar filled with people in Shadyside, an Appalachian foothill town .'
' The Shadyside Fire Department set up a command center at the Jefferson Elementary School to coordinate rescue efforts .'
' Command center spokeswoman Karen Bovek said officials had no complete death toll figure.'
' Authorities were searching for victims in rural areas .'
' "You\'re talking miles and miles of country roads that haven\'t been gotten to yet," she said.'
' "It\'s a disaster here" .'
' Shadyside  about 10 miles south of Wheeling, W.Va.  is in Belmont County, a mostly hilly, rural area in eastern Ohio .'
' Acting Mayor James Amato said the storms created a deluge that knocked homes off their foundations.'
' "There are a lot of trailers out in this area that got hit," he said .'
" Belmont County Sheriff's Department spokeswoman Judy Phillips said a Shadyside bar full of people was washed away when water caved in the back wall."
' Two people were accounted for, she said.'
' But she could offer no estimate of how many were in the bar .'
' Shadyside Fire Chief Mark Badia said rescuers pulled people from three cars in Wegee Creek, which flows through Shadyside and into the Ohio River .'
' "I don\'t know how to describe it . . . you\'ve got to see it to believe it," Badia said .'
' There also was flooding in Jefferson County, north of Belmont, and Licking County in central Ohio .'
' About 200 residents were evacuated from their homes in central Ohio after 3 inches of rain fell in an hour, flooding streets and washing out rural roads .'
' Wire'
' LA061890-0066'
' 235382'
' June 18, 1990, Monday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk'
' 497 words'
' DEATH TOLL REACHES 19, WITH 18 MISSING, AS CREWS DIG IN OHIO FLASH FLOOD DEBRIS;'
' SEARCH: WORKERS PROBE CREEKS WHERE DOGS SIGNAL HUMAN SCENTS.'
' THREE MORE BODIES ARE LOCATED .'
' From Associated Press'
' SHADYSIDE, Ohio'
' The death toll from flash floods that swept through a rural area of eastern Ohio increased to 19 Sunday as searchers dug along two creeks and dived into the Ohio River.'
' Eighteen people remained missing .'
' Workers used shovels and picks to dig along the creek banks, and sifted through debris at places marked with red flags, where search dogs indicated they had detected human scents, National Guard Capt. Jim Boling said .'
' Divers worked where the two creeks empty into the Ohio .'
" One body was found Sunday in debris along Wegee Creek, about three miles from where it meets the river, said Belmont County coroner's investigator Chuck Vogt."
' Another was pulled from the Ohio near a bridge at Moundsville, W.'
' Va., about 10 miles south of Shadyside, he said .'
' The body of a man was found Sunday afternoon in the Ohio River, a half-mile south of the mouth of Wegee Creek and about seven miles south of Shadyside, Vogt said .'
" That brought the confirmed death toll in Thursday's floods to 19, including five children ."
' Twenty-three dog teams from four states were searching for victims.'
' The digging will continue at least through Tuesday, Fire Chief Mark Badia said .'
' "The thing you find once you start into these brush piles and piles of trees are cars, and they have to be torn apart and searched separately," Badia said.'
' "Everything you turn up creates a different situation" .'
' Vogt said he doubted many of the missing would be found alive .'
' "It\'s just been too long.'
' I don\'t think there\'s anybody alive out there," he said.'
' "You can\'t swim out there that long in the Ohio River" .'
' The Wegee and Pipe creeks overflowed Thursday night during storms that poured 5 1/2 inches of rain onto eastern Ohio in 3 1/2 hours.'
' The floods destroyed as many as 70 houses and damaged up to 40 others .'
' Authorities said Friday that 60 people were missing; some of those were later found dead, while others notified authorities that they were safe .'
' Officials also learned that some of those feared missing had moved out of the area.'
' Officials were comparing county property lists and data from the Census Bureau with information from residents and relatives, Boling said .'
' That left 18 still missing, Vogt said.'
' The list was not revised to account for the third body found Sunday afternoon because the man had not been identified .'
' Investigators Sunday blamed the flash floods on an unusually heavy rainstorm that overwhelmed the designed flow capacities of three bridges over the creeks.'
' Badia said rainwater running down hillsides forced debris into the creeks, forming dams at each bridge.'
' The "dams" broke under the water pressure .'
' "Eventually the bridges couldn\'t hold any more.'
' The debris broke loose, and that\'s when we got three big gushes of water," he said .'
' As rescue efforts continued, the National Guard cleared roads and bridges leading into the stricken area .'
' Eighteen Ohio counties have been declared federal disaster areas since tornadoes and flooding first struck May 25 .'
' Photo, Team of divers in Ohio searches near junction of Pipe Creek and Ohio River for victims of flash flooding.'
" Associated Press; Photo, COLOR, A Lifetime's Loss: Shirley Dunfee is consoled by her husband, Bill, as they stand amid rubble of what was their farmhouse in Shadyside, Ohio."
' The death toll from floods that swept the area rose to 19.'
' Associated Press'
' Wire'
' RAIN  MIDWESTERN UNITED STATES; STORMS  OHIO; FLOODS  OHIO; MISSING PERSONS; DISASTER VICTIMS; CASUALTIES; SEARCH AND RESCUES'
