' AP881020-0157'
' AP-NR-10-20-88 1450EDT'
' r i AM-Hirohito 10-20 0341'
' AM-Hirohito,0353'
" Emperor's Blood Pressure Drops Briefly"
' By TERRIL JONES'
' Associated Press Writer'
' TOKYO (AP)'
" Emperor Hirohito's blood pressure and pulse dropped sharply Thursday, but the vital signs later returned to normal as the ailing monarch's internal bleeding continued."
' Hirohito, 87, discharged more blood and was given emergency transfusions, but was resting peacefully by nightfall, an imperial palace spokesman said.'
" Hirohito's blood pressure fell from 132 over 60 in the afternoon to 112 over 50 by evening, and his pulse from 104 per minute in the morning to 84 in the evening, said Kenji Maeda, chief of the Imperial Household Agency's General Affairs Division."
" ``The emperor's blood pressure has returned to what is normal for him, and the head court physician says he is not worried,'' Maeda said."
" One of Hirohito's daughters, Atsuko Ikeda, said Wednesday the emperor had coughed severely during her visit to him and had hardly responded to her."
" On Thursday morning, Hirohito's two sons, Crown Prince Akihito and Prince Hitachi, visited him, and he was fully conscious and alert, a senior palace source said."
' The monarch has been bedridden for a month with an intestinal hemorrhage.'
' There was renewed bleeding Thursday and the pace of the discharges was quickening, Maeda said.'
" Hirohito has received nearly 22 pints of blood since his illness worsened Sept. 19, and the transfusions had put a strain on Hirohito's heart and kidneys, Maeda said without elaborating."
' The only solid food Hirohito has eaten since falling ill are a few spoonfuls of porridge.'
' Otherwise he is being fed intravenously, which gives him 600-700 calories a day, said the senior palace official, who refused to be identified.'
' Before his illness, Hirohito was taking about 1,300 calories daily, the official said.'
' The emperor complains of fatigue but does not appear to be in pain, he said.'
" Crown Princess Michiko, Hirohito's daughter-in-law, scaled down celebrations for her 54th birthday Thursday, canceling a traditional birthday news conference, another palace official said."
' She planned a quiet gathering with members of the imperial family, the official said .'
' AP881118-0104'
' AP-NR-11-18-88 1658EST'
' r i AM-Hirohito 11-18 0225'
' AM-Hirohito,0232'
' Hirohito Weakening, Weighs Only 66 Pounds'
' With AM-Hirohito-Gloom, Bjt'
' TOKYO (AP)'
' Emperor Hirohito has lost nearly 40 pounds in the two months since he fell ill and now weighs only 66 pounds, a palace official was quoted as saying Friday.'
" The 87-year-old emperor's condition weakened Friday, but doctors speculated that a scab had stopped internal bleeding in his upper intestinal area, said Imperial Household Agency spokesman Kenji Maeda."
' Hirohito has suffered repeated bouts of bleeding but has not discharged blood in nine days.'
" The emperor responds to queries from aides but is ``less talkative than before,'' Maeda told reporters."
' He added that doctors sometimes have trouble determining whether Hirohito is awake.'
' News reports quoted Maeda as saying Hirohito has shed much of his normal 104 pounds during his confinement and now weighs about 66 pounds.'
' Hirohito had a temperature of 99.1 degrees Friday evening, up slightly from the morning.'
' His normal temperature is about 95.9 degrees.'
' Doctors have said he suffers from jaundice and anemia.'
" Maeda said the emperor's heart and kidneys were functioning normally."
' Since Sept. 19, when he was confined to intensive care after vomiting blood, Hirohito has received 42 pints of blood in transfusions.'
" Palace officials have not given details on Hirohito's illness, and they would not comment on Japanese news reports that the emperor has pancreatic cancer ."
' AP890107-0016'
' AP-NR-01-07-89 0142EST'
' r i PM-Hirohito-Profile 2Takes 01-07 1066'
' PM-Hirohito-Profile, 2 Takes,1096'
' The Biggest Decision of a 62-Year Reign _ Surrender in World War II'
' With PM-Obit-Hirohito, Bjt'
' Eds: First available for Saturday AMs'
' TOKYO (AP _ Emperor Hirohito will be remembered for one overwhelming decision during his 62-year reign: Japan must bow to defeat for the first time in its history and end the Pacific conflict in World War II.'
' Shortly after that decision, and for most of his reign, Hirohito became a figurehead, isolated from his subjects by tradition and steeped in his great love, the study of marine biology.'
' He was the last survivor among the national leaders of the World War II era.'
" But in his first 20 years, the ``Son of Heaven'' was worshiped as a divinity descended from the Sun Goddess Amaterasu."
" The solitude of animal and plant life under the seas which so intrigued Hirohito was in keeping with the character of the man who became the 124th occupant of the Chrysanthemum Throne at the age of 25 on Christmas Day 1926, designating his reign ``Showa'' _ ``enlightened peace''."
" The emperor was generally portrayed as having played no significant role in planning or carrying out Japan's military adventures in the 1930s and 1940s."
' But it was his first effective decision as emperor, and his most courageous, that ended the Pacific conflict.'
" On Aug. 10, 1945, four days after history's first atomic bomb devastated Hiroshima and one day after a U.S. bomber dropped the second atomic bomb on Nagasaki, the generals and admirals of Imperial Japan's wartime government argued for hours in the sweltering bombproof shelter beneath the Tokyo palace."
" Should Japan agree to the Allies' surrender demand, or fight on until annihilation?"
' Speaking in what some of those present described as a slow and obviously nervous monotone, Hirohito, the spiritual and titular leader, offered his opinion for the first time.'
' He spoke of his sorrow over the soldiers and sailors killed in the long war, and of families who lost everything in air raids.'
" ``I cannot bear to see my innocent people suffer any longer,'' he said."
" ``Ending the war is the only way to restore world peace and to relieve the nation from the terrible distress with which it is burdened''."
" Then, evoking a memory of his grandfather, the Emperor Meiji, whose reign (1867-1912) saw the end of 250 years of feudal Japanese isolation from the outside world, Hirohito told the officers: ``The time has come when we must bear the unbearable''."
' In the days that followed, Hirohito continued his break with tradition.'
' In a national radio broadcast Aug. 15 _ the first time ordinary Japanese ever actually heard his voice _ he personally announced the decision to surrender.'
" He told the ravaged nation that ``the war situation has developed not necessarily to our advantage''."
' Three weeks later, Hirohito donned a silk cutaway coat, striped trousers and a top hat to meet the Allied commander, Gen. Douglas A.'
' MacArthur, at the U.S.'
' Embassy in Tokyo.'
' It was the first time Hirohito had ever gone to see anyone, and the first of several calls on the general who had led the Pacific war against Japan and became its postwar governor.'
" On New Year's Day 1946, at MacArthur's insistence, the emperor publicly renounced his divinity."
' It was a choice that enabled Hirohito to remain as the symbolic head of his nation and assured that he would not face charges as a war criminal, as some abroad had demanded.'
" It also was an act that seemed to relieve no one as much as this gentle, shy and retiring man who never seemed very comfortable as a ``living god''."
" The emperor's status in the eyes of many Japanese changed to that of a kind uncle."
' He became a widely respected authority on marine biology.'
' He possessed rare collections of marine life, discovered several species himself and wrote or co-authored at least 12 books on hydrozoa, or sea animals, his specialty.'
' In recent years, his life had become the subject of a popular comic book series.'
' Still, Hirohito and the imperial system remained important to Japan.'
' A nationwide survey by the daily newspaper Mainichi Shimbun in March 1987 indicated more than 80 percent of 2,184 people polled supported the imperial system, while only 11 percent said it should be abolished.'
' Five percent said the emperor should have more power.'
' From 1946 to 1954, Hirohito toured Japan to encourage the people to rebuild.'
' The Imperial Household Agency, which ran his affairs, said Hirohito considered the postwar period one of the most fulfilling times of his life, in which the nation made a phenomenal recovery from a war that cost 3.1 million Japanese lives.'
' Despite the humanization of the Imperial family, Hirohito remained under strict control of the Imperial Household Agency.'
' Protocol was maintained at nearly all times and he was prohibited from speaking on any controversial subject.'
' Hirohito was born on April 29, 1901.'
' In accordance with age-old imperial custom, he was taken from his parents as an infant to be reared in isolation by household functionaries and trained for one role, that of emperor.'
' His education came as Japan surged into the modern world.'
' The feudal samurai ethic was still strong; when his grandfather died, Gen. Maresuke Nogi, the mentor for the 11-year-old prince, calmly committed ritual suicide to follow the emperor, his master, to the grave.'
' Hirohito studied government and law with private tutors.'
' When he was 20, his father, Emperor Taisho, sent him abroad _ the first time any member of the immediate imperial family was allowed outside Japan.'
' Hirohito visited England, Scotland, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Italy, receiving various decorations.'
' He was also received by Pope Benedict XV.'
' The young man handled money for the first time, paying his own fare on the Paris subway.'
' He developed a passion for bacon and eggs and it became a lifelong breakfast habit.'
" A palace chamberlain said in a 1980 interview that Hirohito shunned Japanese food ``unless it is forced on him by an unwitting host''."
' Hirohito also acquired a preference for Western clothes.'
' He was never seen in public wearing traditional Japanese garb, and a palace official confided that the Emperor of Japan did not even own a kimono.'
' Hirohito became prince regent on Nov. 25, 1921, after his father became a mental and physical invalid, became emperor five years later and was formally enthroned in 1928 .'
' MORE'
' AP890107-0039'
' AP-NR-01-07-89 0424EST'
' u i PM-Hirohito-WorldRdp 01-07 0718'
' PM-Hirohito-World Rdp,0736'
" Most Of World, Except Asian Opponents, Mourn Hirohito's Death"
' With PM-Obit-Hirohito, Bjt'
' By The Associated Press'
" World leaders from President Reagan to Malaysia's king mourned today's death of Emperor Hirohito, who surrendered a broken nation to the Allies in World War II but presided over its rise to economic pre-eminence."
" Reaction to Hirohito's death at age 87, however, was decidedly cool in several Asian countries, including South Korea, which endured years of harsh colonial rule by Japan."
" While South Korea President Roh Tae-Woo sent his condolences, a government party statement added, ``We reserve further comment, considering the unhappy past and the current Korea-Japan relationship''."
" The main opposition party led by Kim Dae-jung said, ``We have complex feelings at the death of Hirohito in view of Japan's 20-year rule over Korea during his reign''."
" A leading newspaper in Seoul, The Joong-Ang Daily News, wrote that Hirohito's death ``reminds all the Korean people of a disgraced period and ..."
' humiliation. ...'
" Hirohito is the symbolic figure who must assume most and final responsibility for (Japan's) preposterous crimes to the Korean people''."
" Korea was divided into the communist north and the capitalist south in 1945, when U.S. and Soviet troops ended Japan's rule that began in 1910 with Japan's forced annexation of the peninsula."
" There was no official comment from the nationalist Chinese government because of the lack of diplomatic relations between Taiwan and Japan, but the mass circulation Chinese daily United Evening News said: ``Asian people who suffered from the slavery and invasion of Japan's militarists during World War II may bury their animosity with Hirohito's death."
' ... Chinese suffered the most from the Japanese invasion.'
' ``It was an irony that while Hirohito apologized to the United States and Europe for the war, he did not direct a single word to China to show his sorrow.Now, Hirohito has died.'
" We may not want to collect the reparations, but we shall never forget the painful historic lessions''."
" In the United States, President Reagan said in a statement, ``His Majesty's 62-year reign spanned one of the most tumultuous, and yet at the same time constructive eras in the history of mankind _ an age of unprecedented economic collapse, a most vicious war, astonishing scientific acheivement, and dramatic political and social changes throughout the world."
' ``It was also an era of unprecedented reconciliation.'
" His Majesty played a truly heroic role in bringing hostilities between our two peoples to an end,'' Reagan said, referring to Hirohito's decision to end World War II."
" In New Zealand, Prime Minister David Lange said Hirohito's death marks the end of an era."
" ``During his reign he saw the transition from the most turbulent period in Japan's modern history to the stability and prosperity of today,'' Lange said."
" President Corazon Aquino of the Philippines sent condolences to the imperial family and her foreign secretary, Raul Manglapus, a Japanese prisoner of war during World War II, praised Hirohito as ``a stabilizing factor'' in the creation of a democratic Japan."
" ``He provided a figurehead that kept the Japanese people firmly committed to peaceful means of achieving their national goals,'' Manglapus said."
" Condolences also came from King Sultan Mahmood Iskandar of Malaysia to Hirohito's oldest son, Crown Prince Akihito, who immediately ascended the Chrysanthemum Throne."
' Prime Minister Bob Hawke of Australia paid his respects in a message to Japanese Prime Minister Noburu Takeshita: ``Throughout his long life, the emperor was held in the highest esteem by his people.'
" Now, as Japan enters a period of mourning and prepares for a new age, our thoughts are with you''."
" But Bruce Ruxton, an official of the Returned Services League, which representing almost 300,000 Australian war veterans, said there would not ``be too many tears shed around the world''."
" He described Hirohito, whose role in the war has been debated, as ``one of the worst war criminals''."
" Marine biologists paid homage to another facet of the monarch's life _ his 12 books published on hydrozoa, or sea animals."
' Robert Hessler of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in La Jolla, Calif., said Hirohito preferred the quiet study to his destined role as leader.'
" ``The poor man didn't really get to do what he wanted to do."
" He had to be emperor first, then second a scientist and normal human being,'' Hessler said ."
' AP890107-0119'
' AP-NR-01-07-89 1709EST'
' u i AM-Hirohito-WorldReax 01-07 0674'
' AM-Hirohito-World Reax,0695'
" World Marks Emperor's Death"
' With AM-Hirohito, Bjt'
' By CHRISTOPHER BURNS'
' Associated Press Writer'
" World leaders sent Japan messages of condolences and some declared states of mourning after Emperor Hirohito's death Saturday, but painful memories of World War II still generated criticism of the Japanese monarch."
" President Reagan said Hirohito's 62-year reign ``spanned one of the most tumultuous, and yet at the same time constructive eras in the history of mankind."
' ``It was also an era of unprecedented reconciliation.'
" His Majesty played a truly heroic role in bringing hostilities between our two peoples to an end,'' Reagan said, referring to Hirohito's decision to end World War II."
" President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union sent his ``sincere condolences'' and ``profound sympathy'' to the Japanese people."
" His two-sentence telegram made no mention of wartime hostilities with what still is known officially as ``militarist Japan''."
' The Kremlin currently is striving for better ties and increased trade with Japan.'
" India declared a three-day national state of mourning in honor of Hirohito and Norway's King Olav V announced a three-week court mourning."
' President Francois Mitterrand of France opened an international conference on chemical weapons with a minute of silence.'
" But some reaction to Hirohito's death was cool in South Korea, which endured years of harsh colonial rule by Japan."
" While President Roh Tae-woo of South Korea sent his condolences, a government party statement added, ``We reserve further comment, considering the unhappy past and the current Korea-Japan relationship''."
' China extended condolences and Taiwan said it will send a delegation to the funeral.'
" But Taiwan's daily United Evening News said: ``It was an irony that while Hirohito apologized to the United States and Europe for the war, he did not direct a single word to China to show his sorrow''."
' Most historians believe Hirohito was a powerless figurehead but had approved orders that led to the attack on Pearl Harbor and put most of East Asia under an often brutal Japanese rule.'
' Hirohito called on his nation to surrender in 1945.'
" The emperor's death drew mixed reaction in the Netherlands, which lost more than 20,000 people under Japan's wartime occupation of the former Dutch East Indies."
" The government said it sent its sympathy for ``the loss that has befallen the Japanese people,'' without mentioning the name of Hirohito, branded a war criminal by survivors of the wartime occupation of the colony that became Indonesia in 1949."
" ``To many war victims, only now has World War II finally come to an end,'' said Gen. Ruud Boekholt, chairman of the August 15 Commemoration Foundation, a group representing 127,000 Dutch citizens who underwent Japanese internment."
" ``Daily, they still feel the pain of the wartime suffering that was inflicted on them in the name of Emperor Hirohito,'' Boekholt told The Associated Press."
" But Indonesian President Suharto cabled his condolences to Crown Prince Akihito, Hirohito's eldest son who immediately ascended the Chrysanthemum Throne, and said he will personally pay the last homage to Hirohito, presidential spokesman Moerdiono said."
" Pope John Paul II expressed his condolences and sent telegrams to Hirohito's family, Vatican radio reported."
" Queen Elizabeth II said she was saddened and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said she shares the Japanese people's sorrow."
' But opposition lawmakers said Britain should boycott his funeral.'
" ``No one should go to that funeral from this country,'' said Ron Brown, a lawmaker of the opposition Labor Party, who denounced Hirohito as ``a war criminal of the worst kind''."
' ``It would be a grave insult to the many men and women ...'
" imprisoned in slave camps,'' he said."
" ``Many of them died, but those who survived still suffer today''."
' King Juan Carlos of Spain, King Faisal of Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf monarchs, King Birendra of Nepal and Sultan Mahmood Iskandar of Malaysia also sent condolences to Akihito.'
" Brazil called Hirohito ``a superior symbol of the Japanese nation, its culture and its anxieties in a period of drastic transformations in the world and his country and in a time of grave new challenges in the world.''"
' AP890112-0071'
' AP-NR-01-12-89 0929EST'
' r i PM-Britain-Hirohito 01-12 0347'
' PM-Britain-Hirohito,0361'
' BBC Show Says U.S.'
' Helped Spare Hirohito From War Crimes Trial'
' LaserPhoto NY6'
' By MICHAEL WEST'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LONDON (AP)'
" U.S. prosecutors pressured Japan's wartime prime minister, Gen. Hideki Tojo, into changing testimony at his trial to avoid incriminating Emperor Hirohito in war crimes, a television documentary claims."
" The British Broadcasting Corp. documentary, details of which were released Wednesday by its maker Edward Behr, said the U.S. prosecutors worked with the emperor's aides to find a way to avoid putting Hirohito on trial."
" The documentary challenges Hirohito's image as a peaceful man forced to go along with his generals' plans and alleges among other things that he: _Must have known about the massacre of at least 20,000 Chinese at Nanking in 1937 because he received regular detailed reports from the China front."
' _Knew more than a month in advance of Japanese plans to attack the U.S. navy at Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941.'
" The BBC will show ``Hirohito _ Behind the Myth'' on Jan. 24."
' Behr is a Paris-based journalist.'
" His biography of China's last monarch was used for the award-winning film ``The Last Emperor''."
' It has been reported previously that American prosecutors wanted to keep Hirohito out of the war crimes trial and asked Tojo to suggest the emperor had consented reluctantly to the war on the advice of the High Command.'
" Gen. Douglas MacArthur, commander of the U.S. forces occupying Japan, wrote in his book ``Reminiscences'' that he fended off pressure from Britain and the Soviet Union to indict Hirohito, arguing that would touch off a guerrilla war."
' Behr told The Associated Press in a telephone interview Wednesday that the documentary will be shown in the United States by PBS on March 13.'
' The BBC has also sold it to Australia, Austria, Canada, Hong Kong, Israel, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain and Sweden.'
' Hirohito died Saturday at the age of 87.'
" The documentary says the decision not to prosecute Hirohito came from President Harry S. Truman and that Tojo's evidence was altered so the emperor would not be incriminated ."
' AP890224-0003'
' AP-NR-02-24-89 0134EST'
' r i PM-Hirohito-Name 02-24 0410'
' PM-Hirohito-Name,0419'
' To The Japanese, Hirohito Has Become Emperor Showa'
' Eds: Also in Friday AMs report .'
' With PM-Hirohito Funeral, Bjt'
' TOKYO (AP)'
' To the rest of the world, he was known as Emperor Hirohito, but in Japan his given name was seldom used.'
' In Japanese he was simply called Tenno Heika, meaning His Majesty The Emperor.'
' The foreign habit of using his name rankled some Japanese, who found it impolite, and unnecessary since to them there is only one emperor.'
' Some Japanese complained that after his death it even became inaccurate to call him Hirohito because he has been given the posthumous name Showa.'
' In Japanese histories, he will be recorded as Emperor Showa, the name he chose for his reign soon after he became emperor in 1926.'
" It means Enlightened Peace, and has been succeeded by Heisei, or Achieving Peace, the name the government chose for the reign of Hirohito's son Akihito a few hours after the emperor died Jan. 7."
' But for the convenience of the rest of the world, which is not so able to keep track of the person behind the changed name, even official agencies have used the name Hirohito in English-language publications.'
" The obituary issued in English by the Foreign Press Center, which is supported by the Foreign Ministry, was headed ``His late Majesty The Emperor Hirohito''."
" English-language newspapers published in Japan quickly began using the name Showa for Hirohito after his death, but it did not become truly official until Jan. 31, when Emperor Akihito conducted a ceremony in which Showa became the late emperor's posthumous name."
' A stone tablet placed in his tomb is engraved only with the posthumous name and the dates of his death and burial.'
" The custom of renaming emperors after the completion of their reigns began after the death in 1912 of Emperor Meiji, Hirohito's grandfather."
" In Japan, years are numbered according to the emperor's tenure on the throne."
' Thus 1926 became Showa 1 as Crown Prince Hirohito ascended to the throne on Dec. 25 when his father, Emperor Taisho, died.'
" The year 1927 was Showa 2, and 1989 was Showa 64 until Hirohito's death on Jan. 7."
' Now this year is Heisei 1.'
' The Japanese custom of changing imperial names is not unique among world royalty, where an individual may have a variety of names and titles in a royal career.'
' In Britain, Prince Andrew became the Duke of York upon his marriage in 1986 .'
' AP890821-0100'
' AP-NR-08-21-89 1744EDT'
' r i AM-Emperor 08-21 0211'
' AM-Emperor,0216'
' Hirohito Leaves $13 Million in Taxable Property'
' TOKYO (AP)'
' Emperor Hirohito left $13.06 million in taxable property, a tax office near the Imperial Palace announced Monday.'
" It was the first time that tax authorities have disclosed the amount of an emperor's taxable estate, an official in the Kojimachi Tax Office said."
' Until the end of World War II, emperors were regarded as living gods.'
' Hirohito died of cancer on Jan. 7 at age 87.'
' He was succeeded by Akihito, his eldest son.'
" Hirohito's wife, Nagako, became empress dowager."
" Akihito has paid $2.99 million in inheritance taxes on his half of his father's estate, which he divided evenly with his mother."
" The empress dowager, as Hirohito's spouse, was exempt from paying inheritance taxes, Kyodo News Service reported."
" The Japanese constitution, drafted by U.S. occupation forces shortly after the end of World War II in 1945, stipulates the emperor is the ``symbol of the state and the unity of the people''."
" Hirohito's estate included stocks and other personal belongings."
' Three sacred treasures _ a mirror, sword and jewels _ which were transferred from emperor to emperor, were tax-exempt, as were about 3,180 items of art owned by Hirohito that were donated to the state, the tax office official said .'
' LA012289-0055'
' 8533'
' January 22, 1989, Sunday, Home Edition'
' Opinion; Part 5; Page 4; Column 6; Letters Desk'
' 230 words'
' DEATH OF HIROHITO'
' The death of Emperor Hirohito finished the list of political and military leaders of the World War II era, one of the darkest and bloodiest eras of history on either the European or Asian continents .'
' The political and military role that Emperor Hirohito played before and during the war was never clear to us.'
' He may not have had that kind of influence now, but before the war he was regarded as god and was worshiped in Japan with religious vigor.'
' At the surrender of the Imperial Japanese government, Hirohito was spared punishment because "it was his ambitious military generals who made the decision to invade the neighbors" .'
' I found it is very hard to believe that a man in his middle age, in his position, in his culture and in his country at that time had nothing much to do with all the military aggravations that his armies imposed on neighboring countries .'
' Of course, some Japanese military leaders were executed after the war for criminal acts they were responsible for.'
' I often wonder if Hirohito ever felt grateful to those generals who were sacrificed, in part, so that he could live for another 43 years.'
' I only wish that the soul of Emperor Hirohito be ready to face the ultimate justice when he meets with the waiting souls of millions of innocent men, women and children who were tortured and murdered in his name during the war .'
' STEVE T. HU'
' Cerritos'
' Letter to the Editor'
