' AP890922-0007'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 0022EDT'
' u a AM-Hugo 10thLd-Writethru a0404-5 09-22 0832'
' AM-Hugo, 10th Ld-Writethru, a0404-5, 2 Takes,0851'
' URGENT'
' Killer Storm Hits South Carolina Coast'
' Eds: LEADS with 17 grafs to UPDATE with eye passing just east of Charleston, 119 mph winds reported in city, other details.'
" Picks up 19th graf pvs, `Near its...'"
' LaserPhotos MH2, BEF1, LaserGraphic'
' By BRUCE SMITH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP)'
' Hurricane Hugo struck South Carolina with renewed fury Thursday after thousands of coastal residents in southeastern states grabbed what they could carry and fled inland on jammed highways.'
" ``This is a disaster staring us right in the eye,'' Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. said from his City Hall command post in Charleston, where the hurricane downed power lines, snapped trees and caused utility transformers to explode."
" ``All we can do now is pray and hope all the precautions we have taken have been sufficient,'' Riley said as Hugo's eye bore in on the city."
" ``I just hope and pray we can get through this without any loss of life''."
' By midnight, 119 mph winds were reported in Charleston.'
' The roof cracked at City Hall, a 188-year-old brick building that has withstood several hurricanes, and torrents of water poured into the paneled council chamber.'
' Phone and electric service to the command post was knocked out.'
' Hurricane-force winds first hit the coast by 9:15 p.m. EDT, and about three hours later the eye of the storm passed over the Isle of Palms just east of Charleston, said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla.'
' The eye was about 10 miles across and top winds were still at 135 mph. Hugo was expected to turn gradually to the north, causing severe flooding as it moved up the East Coast.'
' The storm posed a 19 percent chance of hitting New York City and a 16 percent chance of hitting Boston before Sunday night, the hurricane center said.'
' As Hugo neared the coast, roads from Hilton Head to Myrtle Beach, 200 miles north, were nearly empty, as were the boarded-up resort towns themselves.'
' Power lines and trees were downed in some spots and water flooded roads.'
' Stop lights and neon lights were knocked out in Myrtle Beach.'
" ``One eyewitness said `It's like a light show,''' said Amy Garrison, a reporter at WKZQ AM-FM in Myrtle Beach."
' In Charleston, the hurricane littered streets with tin roofs, palmetto fronds and chunks of bark.'
' Businesses were closed and classes at public schools and universities canceled.'
' Riley ordered residents of one-story homes to evacuate.'
' Hospitals stockpiled supplies, discharging any patients well enough to go and moving others to hospitals inland to make room for emergency patients, officials said.'
' About 12,000 people had checked into 83 shelters across the state as of Thursday evening, and more were expected, said Bennish Brown, a spokesman for the Emergency Operations Center in Columbia, 220 miles northwest of here.'
" ``We tried to close the doors but people are sneaking in side doors,'' said Elaine Skelton, a registered nurse working at the Conway High School shelter near Myrtle Beach."
" ``We tried to post guards at the doors, but people were still coming in''."
' American Red Cross relief efforts were buckling under the number of evacuees, said Brian Ruberry, a spokesman in Savannah, Ga., who appealed for help.'
' ``Right now the Red Cross is sheltering tens of thousands of people all along the Eastern seaboard.'
" This of course is at the same time that we're sheltering 25,000 people on Puerto Rico and the other Caribbean islands."
" ``We're beginning to feel the squeeze."
' Our resources are very tight.'
" Right now Hugo is shaping up to be one of our biggest relief operations of the decade''."
' At midnight, the center of Hugo was near latitude 32.7 degrees north and longitude 79.9 degrees west, forecasters said.'
" The hurricane's speed had picked up to 22 mph from 20 mph earlier."
" Near its center, Hugo's muscle reached winds of 135 mph, up from 125 mph earlier in the day and 105 mph the day before."
' North and South Carolina can expect tornadoes linked to Hugo for the next two days, according to the hurricane center.'
' The coastal area could expect hurricane force winds for 10 to 12 hours once the eye comes ashore, officials said.'
' A hurricane warning was in effect between Fernandina Beach, Fla., and Oregon Inlet, N.C.'
' By late afternoon, Hugo was upgraded to a category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale of strength, the second mightiest category, which indicated it could cause extreme damage.'
" ``It strengthened more than we thought it would,'' Sheets said, adding that Hugo would cause severe flooding as it moved up the Appalachians."
" The timing of the landfall was critical because of the storm's tidal surge, a dome of water 10 to 15 feet high that would feed a normal 5-foot high tide that peaks after 2 a.m."
" ``On top of that will be waves,'' Sheets said earlier, and in many places on barrier islands ``the buildings will be swept clean off.''"
' MORE'
' AP890922-0049'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 0413EDT'
' r a PM-Hugo-CharlestonHistory 1stLd-Writethru a0475 09-22 0361'
' PM-Hugo-Charleston History, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0475,0367'
' Hurricane Latest in String of Disasters to Hit Historic City'
' With PM-Hugo-Scene, Bjt'
" Eds: LEADS with 6 grafs to UPDATE with storm having hit; picks up 6th graf, `Charleston, a city ...'"
' By BRUCE SMITH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP)'
' This historic city has survived the ravages of earthquake, battle and storm in its storied 300-year-history, but it faced perhaps its greatest test of all in Hurricane Hugo.'
' The storm, packing winds of up to 135 mph, raged into Charleston Thursday night.'
" ``This is a dangerous, killer hurricane, the likes of which few people who have lived all their lives in Charleston have experienced,'' warned Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. Hugo was the first major hurricane to strike Charleston since Hurricane Gracie came ashore 70 miles to the south in 1959."
' The seaside community has suffered through many disasters, both natural and man-made.'
' The worst in recent decades was in 1938 when a tornado tore through the city, killing 32 people, injuring hundreds and causing an estimated $2 million in property damage.'
' Charleston, a city of pastel-colored antebellum structures lining quaint streets and alleyways, is where the Civil War began in 1861.'
" The city has survived the shot and shell of two wars and any number of smaller hurricanes, politely referred to by Charlestonians of refinement as ``September gales''."
' But the worst natural disaster to beset the city occurred on the hot night of Aug. 31, 1886, when the ground rumbled in what some folks thought was a prelude to Judgement Day.'
' The great Charleston earthquake was felt as far away as Chicago and New York City.'
" Measuring 7.7 on the Richter scale of ground motion, the earthquake claimed an estimated 110 lives, destroyed 102 buildings and tossed most of the city's 14,000 chimneys into the streets."
' In recent years, the city has attracted millions of visitors annually who tour its historic buildings and visit its nearby fine sand beaches.'
' Charleston has received international acclaim as home to Spoleto Festival U.S.A., founded by composer Gian Carlo Menotti.'
" Organizers like to refer to Spoleto as the world's most comprehensive arts festival ."
' AP890922-0119'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 1300EDT'
' r a AM-Hugo-CityHall 09-22 0348'
' AM-Hugo-City Hall,0357'
' Officials Ride Out Storm In Historic City Hall'
' With AM-Hugo, Bjt'
' By BRUCE SMITH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP)'
" While Hurricane Hugo's 135 mph wind roared outside, Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. watched the fury it vented on his beloved, 300-year-old city."
" Riley, city officials and a few reporters stayed in Charleston's historic City Hall through Thursday night as the area's worst hurricane in three decades pounded the coastal city where the Civil War began."
' Late in the day, there was hope Hugo might spare Charleston.'
' But the storm gathered strength and speed as it spun straight toward this city, which had survived a number of near misses from great storms in recent years.'
' From the moment it became apparent Hugo might strike the Southeast coast, many Charlestonians conceded that, this time, their number was up.'
" As Hugo's wind howled outside the plywood boards protecting the windows, reporters wandered in and out of Riley's office."
' On his desk several candles burned as insurance against the inevitable loss of power.'
' Later there was a sharp crack as a piece of the tin roof ripped off and water seeped down on the burnished wood tables in the City Council chamber.'
' Phone and electric service to the city command post was knocked out.'
' During it all, Riley kept in close contact with the National Weather Service.'
' As the eye of the storm passed, he took reporters onto the porch of the 188-year-old brick City Hall to look at the damage.'
' The initial view, sketched out in the glow of flashlights, was unsettling: The tin roof was tossed in the gutter, slate tiles were scattered on the ground.'
' Bricks, sticks and leaves littered the street.'
' ``This is the eye of the hurricane.'
" I've never been in one and I hope I'm never in one again,'' Riley said."
" ``It's scarcely a late summer breeze''."
' As the storm died before dawn, Riley was out on the streets again in a raincoat carrying a flashlight to get a better assessment of the damage.'
" ``Serious but fixable,'' the mayor concluded ."
' AP890922-0167'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 2031EDT'
' r a AM-Hugo-Tracking 09-22 0533'
' AM-Hugo-Tracking,0554'
' Forecasting Aided By Supercomputers, But Still An Uncertain Science'
' With AM-Hugo, Bjt'
' By KIM S. MARTIN'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MIAMI (AP)'
' Supercomputers, satellites and the expertise of several hurricane forecasters predicted the destructive path Hurricane Hugo would follow, giving people plenty of time to flee the South Carolina coast.'
' But hurricane tracking remains an uncertain science.'
" Forecasters at the National Hurricane Center used computer models to track Hugo's path into Charleston, S.C."
" ``All the world's knowledge about meteorological conditions and forecasting changes in those conditions is embodied in those models,'' said Thomas Pyke, head of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's satellite service."
" Pinpointing the exact point of Hugo's landfall was difficult, but forecasters said Friday that the landfall was predicted in time for evacuation."
" ``Overall, I think the tracking models gave us a very good idea where Hugo would be so officials in South Carolina could act in a timely manner,'' said research meteorologist Colin McAdie."
' The real forecasting problem with Hugo was predicting the intensity of the storm, which was upgraded to a Category 4 hurricane just hours before it slammed into Charleston.'
" ``It is very difficult to predict changes in intensity because we don't have very reliable computer models for that,'' McAdie said."
" ``We really need to improve on our forecasting ability of strength''."
' The hurricane specialists were surprised by the last-minute increase in wind speed, which was reported to them by Air Force reconnaissance.'
' Hurricane specialist Gil Clark, who has tracked hurricanes for 35 years, said that a couple of decades ago, the only forecasting tools were reports from aircraft or ships.'
" ``We had no radar or satellites then, so needless to say our forecasts were less accurate,'' Clark said."
' In the late 1960s, the weather service began using satellites to obtain a global weather picture.'
' Information from the satellite is used to improve the accuracy of the large-scale models that television viewers see every night.'
' Using the information from the satellite, supercomputers at the National Meteorological Center in Suitland, Md., send information to the hurricane center where a tracking model constantly changes to account for current weather conditions and the position of the hurricane.'
' To determine the track of the storm, the forecasters analyze supercomputer predictions, satellite data, the history of similar storms and the current path of the hurricane.'
' Then they make an educated guess about the landfall.'
' Meteorology professor Kerry A. Emmanuel of the Massachussetts Institute of Technology criticizes the current forecasting system.'
" ``Congress and the American people are suffering from the collective delusion that our data problems have been solved by satellites and that just isn't true,'' Emmanuel said."
" Satellites can give a ``pretty picture,'' he said, but not enough information about the wind and temperatures that affect a hurricane's path."
" ``Most of the information actually used to predict hurricanes comes from flying airplanes into the hurricane, and they do a very good job,'' Emmanuel said."
' Forecasters say the accuracy of satellite pictures is improving every year so long-range forecasting should become more precise.'
" ``We have to remember that those models used are only guidance products,'' Pyke said, ``and that it's ultimately the job of the forecaster to predict the storm's path.''"
' AP890925-0054'
' AP-NR-09-25-89 0631EDT'
' r a PM-Hugo-Readiness 09-25 0321'
' PM-Hugo-Readiness,0336'
' Loss Of Life Low Because People Were Prepared'
' With PM-Hugo Bjt'
' By BRUCE SMITH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP)'
" Residents took forecasters at their word when they warned of Hurricane Hugo's fury, and the low number of deaths from the powerful storm can be credited to this healthy respect, authorities said."
" The storm, which caused billions in damage, claimed 17 lives in South Carolina, and only two were in the Charleston area, which bore the brunt of Hugo's 135 mph winds."
" ``We just feel very thankful about that,'' said Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr."
" ``Several thousands of people who were in the shelters and the tens of thousands of people who evacuated inland were potential victims of injury and death''."
' Riley and other officials credited residents with monitoring the hurricane as it spun toward Charleston, and heeding evacuation warnings.'
' The last big storm to hit South Carolina was Hurricane David in 1979, which hit the coast after pounding southern Florida.'
" Since then several big storms have threatened but veered away, and officials were worried that Charlestonians wouldn't heed Hugo's warnings."
" ``We've had so many close calls,'' said Gary Garnet, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service."
" ``But this storm was very, very strong,'' he said."
" ``This time they realized it''."
' Glen Ellis, a Red Cross official, estimated that 18,000 residents in Charleston and the three surrounding counties headed for shelters.'
' Tens of thousands more got into their cars and headed up Interstate 26 toward Columbia.'
' Mayor John Bourne of North Charleston, where there apparently were no storm-related deaths, credited people for heeding the warnings.'
" ``It was bad, but it could have been a lot worse,'' he said."
" ``You've just got to say nice things about the people''."
' Meanwhile, Garnet had some good news for storm-weary Charlestonians: late Saturday the tropics were quiet with no other storms brewing.'
" ``There's nothing to worry about out there,'' he said ."
' AP890928-0099'
' AP-NR-09-28-89 1317EDT'
' r a AM-Hugo-OldDebt 09-28 0287'
' AM-Hugo-Old Debt,0294'
' City Sends Money To Charleston In Repayment Of 211-year-old Debt'
' With AM-Hugo Bjt'
' KINGSTON, N.Y. (AP)'
" It's taken the devastation caused by Hurricane Hugo to stimulate repayment of a 211-year-old debt between two cities almost 1,000 miles apart."
' As a way of repaying a kindness dating to 1778, Kingston is raising money to help Charleston, S.C., recover.'
" After Kingston, then New York's capital, was burned in October 1777 by the British, New York Gov. George Clinton received a letter from South Carolina Gov. Abraham Livingston."
' The letter included nearly 1,000 New York pounds to help Kingston residents get through their crisis.'
" ``This money has been received for the charitable purpose of alleviating the distresses of the now-indigent inhabitants of the town of Kingston, who by the ravages of the enemy are reduced to poverty and want,'' Livingston wrote on March 31, 1778."
' Kingston Historian Edwin Ford remembered the letter when Hurricane Hugo ravaged the Carolinas last week.'
" ``I figured they helped us, we should do something for them,'' Ford said."
' On Wednesday, a local Red Cross chapter began collecting donations for victims of the hurricane.'
" ``A lot of people have been calling, asking to send donations down there,'' said Susan Lawlor, executive director of the Ulster County Chapter of the Red Cross."
' On Tuesday, New York state sent two airplanes full of food, clothing and water to parts of the Caribbean ravaged by Hugo.'
' A New York National Guard C-5A cargo plane also left Tuesday to pick up equipment in Mississippi and take it to Puerto Rico.'
' Another cargo plane was scheduled to leave Stewart Air Force Base in Newburgh, taking 70 tons of food, water and other supplies to Puerto Rico .'
' LA092189-0225'
' 110563'
' September 21, 1989, Thursday, P.M. Final'
' Part A; Page 1; Column 6; Late Final Desk'
' 503 words'
' 150,000 TAKE OFF AS HUGO TAKES AIM AT GA.'
' , CAROLINA;'
" HURRICANE'S EDGE TO HIT AT 8 P.M ."
' From Associated Press'
' CHARLESTON, S.C .'
' Hurricane Hugo advanced faster and with renewed fury today on Georgia and South Carolina as 150,000 coastal residents grabbed what they could carry and fled inland on jammed highways .'
' "We\'re not going to take any chances," said Lamar Davis, a bartender on St. Simons Island off southern Georgia, who stole a last glance at the pounding surf before leaving with his wife and 4-year-old daughter .'
' The leading edge of Hugo, whose winds muscled up to 125 m.p.h. from 105 m.p.h. the day before, was most likely to hit between Savannah, Ga., and Charleston any time after 8 p.m., local time.'
' A hurricane warning was in effect between Fernandina Beach, Fla., and Oregon Inlet, N.C .'
' At 3 p.m., Hugo was 220 miles from Savannah and bearing down at 20 m.p.h.'
' It was expected to turn gradually to the north, according to the National Weather Service .'
' Tidal Surge Feared'
" The timing of the landfall was critical because of the storm's tidal surge, a dome of water 10 to 15 feet high that would feed a normal 5-foot tide that peaks after 2 a.m ."
' "On top of that will be waves, and so (on) . . . barrier islands (in) many places the buildings will be swept clean off of those islands," Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center, said from Coral Gables, Fla .'
' Evacuees queued up at gasoline stations and stripped store shelves of bottled water, bread and batteries.'
' Officials warned coastal dwellers not to linger because gale force winds and flash floods could block escape routes.'
' Five to 10 inches of rain is expected .'
' The Navy moved ships out of coastal harbors to ride out the storm at sea.'
' Army bases in coastal states moved helicopters inland or into shelters .'
' In South Carolina, which was in a state of emergency, Gov. Carroll Campbell dispatched 400 National Guardsmen to assist a mandatory evacuation of coastal barrier islands and shorefront.'
" About one-fifth of the state's 3.1 million residents live in eight coastal counties ."
' Resort Streets Deserted'
' By early afternoon, the wind-swept streets of the resort island of Hilton Head were deserted.'
' Store windows were fortified with boards and most homes were empty.'
" State troopers guarded the island's entrance ."
' "We brought our photo albums and our important papers," said Pat Bross, who had stopped for gas while heading from Hilton Head to Augusta, Ga., with her husband .'
' The Georgia Emergency Management Agency opened shelters and advised about 142,000 people  more than 95,000 of them in Chatham County  to leave their homes.'
' Gov. Joe Frank Harris declared a state of emergency in six counties .'
" The state's biggest shelters were opened at Georgia Southern College in Statesboro, with room for 15,500, and the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Dublin, where officials said nearly 19,000 could be housed ."
' Coastal school systems canceled classes for the rest of the week .'
' Hugo was upgraded to a Category 3 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale of strength, indicating that it was powerful enough to cause extensive damage .'
' Photo, Residents heading inland to flee hurricane are bumper to bumper leaving Charleston, S.C., today.'
' Associated Press'
' Wire'
' LA092789-0093'
' 112961'
' September 27, 1989, Wednesday, Home Edition'
' Business; Part 4; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk'
' 686 words'
' HURRICANE HUGO MAY BE MOST COSTLY STORM EVER;'
' 2 BIGGEST INSURERS IN CAROLINAS ESTIMATING LOSSES AT $600 MILLION'
' By LINDA WILLIAMS, Times Staff Writer'
' The two dominant home and automobile insurers in the Carolinas said Tuesday that they expect to be hit with about $600 million in claims from Hurricane Hugo.'
' Such heavy losses suggest that the storm will be the most expensive ever for the insurance industry .'
' State Farm Insurance Co. expects claims as high as $400 million in South Carolina, where it insures one out of every five homes, spokesman Jerry Parsons said.'
' The Bloomington, Ill.-based company is also projecting an additional $100 million in claims from storm damage in North Carolina and Virginia, he said .'
' Additionally, Nationwide Insurance Co. said it expects claims close to $100 million, more than triple the $31 million that the company paid for damages caused by Hurricane Elena when it swept through Florida, Alabama and Mississippi in 1985 .'
' "Our previous all-time high was in 1983, when we paid $165 million in comparable claims for Hurricane Alicia, which struck Galveston and Houston.'
' There were a phenomenal number of claims from that storm, but there was not the severity of damage" as in Hugo, Parsons said.'
' Officials said property damage from Hugo escalated because the storm scored a direct hit on Charleston and then, instead of heading out to sea, veered northwest, hitting other population centers, including Charlotte, N.C .'
' Losses Still Being Tallied'
' Nationwide, based in Columbus, Ohio, is the biggest home and auto insurance in North Carolina, where damage was unexpectedly high, and is the third-largest insurer in South Carolina.'
' "We have so far received 16,000 claims," spokesman Bob Sohozich said .'
' Although claims adjusters are still tallying the losses, there is now little doubt that overall damage to insured property will far exceed the record $752.5 million in claims paid by the industry after Hurricane Frederic struck Mississippi and Alabama in 1979, Parsons said .'
' The Insurance Information Institute is expected to issue a report Thursday on overall insured losses from Hugo.'
' Although the losses are substantial, they are not expected to threaten the financial health of any individual company because reinsurers will pick up a significant portion of the costs.'
' For example, Nationwide said it would be responsible for up to $30 million in claims, while its reinsurers would cover up to $150 million in damages.'
' Reinsurers  which share a portion of the risk on an insurance policy in exchange for part of the premium income  typically spread their risk over many hundreds of companies .'
' Analysts said most of the claims will be borne by mutual insurance companies, which are owned by policyholders, but they noted that losses from Hurricane Hugo would also affect the short-term earnings of some publicly traded companies .'
' Continental Corp. said it expects to report a pretax charge of $50 million for the third quarter, reflecting its net exposure to damages from the storm.'
' The New York-based company had substantial business in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, where Hugo first struck with devastating force .'
' Forecasts May Be Cut'
' The charge might push Continental into the red for the quarter, said Udayan Ghose, an analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton in New York.'
' "If there is a profit, it will be a very small one," he said.'
' The charge will cut expected annual earnings by close to 25%, he added .'
' Ghose said Shearson may also cut its third-quarter and annual earnings projections for Cigna Corp., USF&G Corp. and Lincoln National Corp., which are expected to suffer hurricane-related losses equal to about 10% of expected full-year earnings .'
' Overall 1989 catastrophic losses for the industry now total about $1.6 billion, and analysts expect Hugo to make this year the costliest.'
' But "this could be a positive for the industry," Ghose said, explaining that the industry is in the middle of a price war because it is overcapitalized.'
' Billions of dollars in losses from Hugo and other catastrophes this year would have "a significant impact on excess capital," he said, causing insurance firms to raise prices shortly .'
' "That would be good for the companies and shareholders," he said .'
' HURRICANES; STORMS  SOUTH CAROLINA; HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE; NATIONWIDE LIFE INSURANCE CO; CONTINENTAL CORP; DISASTERS; PROPERTY DAMAGE; INSURANCE CLAIMS; STORMS  NORTH CAROLINA; STATE FARM FIRE & CASUALTY CO; STORMS  PUERTO RICO; STORMS  VIRGIN ISLANDS OF THE UNITED STATES'
' WSJ890927-0018'
' = 890927'
' 890927-0018 .'
' Hugo to Be Costliest Storm for Insurers @ But No Early Rate Increase Is Expected @  @ By Beatrice E. Garcia @ Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal'
' 09/27/89'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)'
' CIC CI FG TIC AET CB NIEX'
' INSURANCE (INS)'
" Hurricane Hugo will go down in the record books as the costliest storm insurers have faced so far, but it won't cause property-casualty premium rates to rise immediately, analysts and company officials say."
' The property claims service division of the American Insurance Service Group, a trade association, is expected to announce its estimate of total insured losses tomorrow.'
' "Hugo will be the biggest hurricane loss on record," said one official, far surpassing the $752.5 million insurers paid out after Frederick ripped through several Gulf Coast states in 1979.'
' The impact on premium rates could be minimal for now, analysts expect, because the biggest losses will be in the personal insurance area  for homes and autos.'
' Most companies typically set aside funds from premiums they collect every year to cover claims they might have to pay in the future.'
" In the last three years, hurricane and storm seasons have been relatively mild, so insurers haven't had to dip into these funds."
' And since Hugo also stormed through the Caribbean, foreign insurers are at risk for some of the damage on those islands.'
" Yet, some analysts believe Hugo's huge losses will make a dent in the industry's capital and crimp cash flow; that could make insurers less likely to slash premium rates further in coming months."
' Rates have been falling since late 1986.'
' Udayan Ghose at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. believes these reasons might cause rates to edge higher by mid-1990.'
' For the time being, the losses from Hugo "will be substantial, but they won\'t be something the industry can\'t handle," said Charles L. Ruoff, director of strategic planning at Fred S. James & Co., a New York-based insurance broker.'
' For instance, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. estimates it will pay claims totaling more than $400 million to homeowners and for some small businesses.'
' Nationwide Insurance Co., a mutual company based in Columbus, Ohio, said Hugo "is the single largest claims disaster" it has seen in its 63-year history.'
' The company, which is the largest home and auto insurer in North Carolina and No. 3 in South Carolina, has already received 16,000 claims from the stricken region.'
' Claims could total $100 million, a spokesman said.'
' For some insurers, Hugo was a double-whammy.'
' New York-based Continental Corp., which is a big insurer in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and South Carolinas, said it will take a $50 million pretax charge against earnings this quarter, reflecting its net exposure to the damages caused by the hurricane.'
' "Hugo will be particularly costly to us," said John P.'
" Mascotte, Continental's chairman."
' Philadelphia-based Cigna Corp., which has extensive domestic, foreign and reinsurance operations in the areas Hugo hit, and USF&G Corp. in Baltimore, a big insurer in the Carolina region, could also be forced to take one-time charges against third-quarter earnings, analysts said.'
" Some of USF&G's losses hit very close home  its Charleston office was destroyed by the hurricane."
' Both USF&G and Cigna declined to predict whether they would take a charge; USF&G said it would be responsible for the first $22.5 million of losses, and its reinsurance would cover the bulk of additional losses.'
' Hugo could have a marginal impact on third-quarter income at Travelers Corp., Aetna Life & Casualty Insurance Co. and Chubb Corp., according to industry analysts.'
' Mr. Ruoff at Fred S. James believes that even if losses from Hugo total as much as $5 billion, insurers won\'t feel enough "financial pain, such as not being able to pay shareholder dividends," to compel them to boost premium rates right away.'
' He explained that in the first six months of this year, net income for the industry declined slightly from 1988, but insurance companies were still earning an adequate rate of return on equity.'
" He also noted that the industry's aggregate net worth or policyholders' surplus, currently at $125 billion, is also plentiful."
' Generally, insurers can book about $3 of premiums for every $1 of surplus.'
' Right now, premiums total about $200 billion, he said.'
' An official at Nationwide Insurance noted that the company has $1 of surplus for every $2 of insurance that it writes.'
' Insurers also buy protection for themselves through reinsurance by paying another company a portion of the premium to bear some of the losses.'
' Michael Lewis at Dean Witter Reynolds said losses from Hugo could be big enough to "temporarily" increase reinsurance rates.'
' Although reinsurance will limit the exposure of some companies, the losses they must still cover could hurt third-quarter results.'
' Niagara Exchange Corp., based in Buffalo, N.Y., said Monday it will report a loss from operations for the third quarter, and possibly for the year, because of the substantial losses that its Charleston Insurance Co. unit faces as a result of the hurricane.'
" State Farm, the nation's largest home insurer, doesn't buy reinsurance."
' It believes its reserves are plentiful enough to absorb its losses, a spokesman said .'
' WSJ890928-0084'
' = 890928'
' 890928-0084 .'
" Several Insurers' Net @ To Be Cut in Quarter @ By Hurricane Hugo @  @ A Wall Street Journal News Roundup"
' 09/28/89'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)'
' AIG STPL CI'
' INSURANCE (INS)'
' Damage from Hurricane Hugo, which stormed through the Carolinas and the Caribbean last week, will reduce third-quarter earnings for several insurers.'
' New York-based American International Group Inc. expects net losses related to Hugo to reduce pretax earnings between $35 million and $45 million.'
' Analysts said AIG has told them that it must cover the first $35 million of losses and that its reinsurance agreements will cover the bulk of the remaining damages.'
' AIG insured property in Puerto Rico, the eastern Caribbean Islands and the coastal regions of the Carolinas.'
" St. Paul Cos., based in St. Paul, Minn, said the pretax cost of Hugo shouldn't exceed $50 million."
' That amount takes into consideration what St. Paul expects to recover under its reinsurance contracts, the company said.'
" Philadelphia-based Cigna Corp. is expected to disclose Hugo's likely impact on its earnings sometime today."
" Udayan Ghose, an insurance industry analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton in New York, estimates that Cigna's third-quarter per-share earnings could be reduced by between 50 cents and 65 cents a share on an after-tax basis."
' That would wipe out 35% to 40% of his $1.40-a-share earnings estimate for the third quarter.'
" State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. said its State Fire & Casualty Co. unit estimates claim payments from Hugo will exceed $400 million in South Carolina alone, far surpassing the company's record payout for a single disaster."
' When damages in North Carolina and Virginia are added, the company said, the payments will exceed $500 million.'
' It said that is more than three times the previous record of $165 million set by Hurricane Alicia, which hit the Houston-Galveston, Texas, area in 1983 .'
