' AP881106-0062'
' AP-NR-11-06-88 1737EST'
' u a AM-NYMarathon Bjt 11-06 0516'
' AM-NY Marathon, Bjt,0532'
' Sun Shines on Crowds in Manhattan for the New York City Marathon'
' LaserPhotos NY12, NY16, NY19, NY20, NY23, LaserGraphics NY24, NY27'
' By GEORGE P. BAYLISS'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
' Television watchers of the 19th annual New York City Marathon followed the step-by-step progress Sunday of the leaders, but many spectators on the course scanned the thousands of runners for a familar face.'
' The winner in the field of 23,478 _ largest ever for a marathon _ was Steve Jones of Wales, who finished in 2 hours, 8 minutes and 20 seconds, only seven seconds off the course record.'
" Grete Waitz of Norway won the women's division for a record ninth time in 2:28:07."
' Marybeth Torpe was hoping another runner would run fast _ her boyfriend Tony Giannelli.'
' She and several others had staked out the corner table at a restaurant on First Avenue to get a good view of the runners as they romped off the Queensboro Bridge.'
' Their hopes on seeing Giannelli depended on how fast the Yonkers native ran.'
' ``We have to leave this table by 12:30.'
" The manager's kicking us out,'' said one of Giannelli's friends, Pete Koogan."
' Torpe was eager for Giannelli to finish, too.'
" ``I'm going to ask him to marry me today,'' she said, holding up the rose she planned to give him."
' Crowds cheered for the those in the lead packs and the also-rans on the warm, sunny autumn day.'
' Lynne Avery, a sophomore at Morristown (N.J).'
' High School, waited on First Avenue near 60th Street hoping to catch a glimpse of her English teacher, Robert Paciorkowski.'
' But she was not taking any chances on missing him.'
" ``Mr. Paciorkowski told us if he saw a television camera, he'd wave to us,'' Avery said _ as she held a small portable television in her hand."
' All along the marathon route, volunteers handed drinks to runners, but Rick Fairlamb of Glen Rock, N.J., had prepared a special elixir of carrot juice.'
" He handed them out to the 50 or so runners in the ``Natural Living'' running club who passed his table at 61st Street and First Avenue."
' ``Last night I went into Brooklyn and got 500 pounds of carrots from a food co-op.'
" We juiced them starting at 5 this morning,'' he said."
' In Central Park, Richard Borrego stood on the railing with a bullhorn, waiting for his favorites in the race to pass.'
" He didn't have any trouble finding them."
" ``I'm cheering for Grete and Steve Jones,'' Mr. Borrego said, referring to the winners."
" ``They're both so courteous, full of good sportsmanship."
' They always help other runners.'
" They never knock other runners,'' Borrego said."
" ``And that's the way it should be''."
" In Washington, D.C., more than 13,000 people from 23 countries and 49 states ran the Marine Corps Marathon, which offers no prize money and prides itself on being the ``people's race''."
' Jim Hage, a lawyer from Lanham, Md., who had never won a major marathon, pulled away from two-time champion Brad Ingram in the last half mile to win in 2:21:58 .'
' FT923-8766'
' _AN-CHLBKAEWFT'
' 920808'
" FT 08 AUG 92 / The Barcelona Olympics: Marathon a 'sell-out to commercialism' - Tomorrow's runners face daunting heat and a wicked finish, just for TV ratings"
' By NICHOLAS WOODSWORTH'
' TOMORROW evening, just before the Olympic closing ceremony, the last and one of the most prestigious events of the Games will be held.'
' It is also without doubt the most gruelling.'
" Run in high heat, high humidity, high pollution levels and over an extraordinary course, the Barcelona Olympic men's marathon will prove one of the most physically demanding ever run."
' There are lots of figures to show why.'
' It is estimated that when the race begins in Mataro, a seaside town north of Barcelona, the temperature will be an already-uncomfortable 25`C.'
" Towards the marathon's end, however, radiant heat thrown off by buildings could be subjecting the runners to a temperature of up to 30`C."
' More debilitating still, relative humidity in Barcelona in August rises as high as 80 per cent.'
' With more than 10 kilometres still to go, most of the course is an upward run.'
" The last 4.6km, which take the runners 60m higher still to the Olympic stadium at the top of the hill of Montjuic, has an average gradient of more than 4.5 per cent, and includes some sections of 7 per cent, equivalent in skiing terms to a steep 'red' run."
" But we do not need figures to convince us of the extraordinary difficulty of tomorrow's race."
" Last Saturday, in the Olympic stadium, I watched the final moments and aftermath of the women's marathon, begun at the same time of day and run in similar conditions."
' Never in any event voluntarily entered into, sporting or otherwise, have I seen such signs of physical and mental distress.'
" The race was won by the Unified Team's Valentina Yegorova in 2 hours 32 minutes, a time considerably slower than that achieved by women on less demanding Olympic marathon courses in Los Angeles and Seoul."
" After her nearest competitor, Japan's Yuko Arimori, came in eight seconds later, they had the energy - between bouts of grimacing and lowering their heads to their knees - to embrace each other and smile for the cameras."
" It was a different story in the 'mixed zone,' the area under the stadium where athletes recover after their events."
' As runner after runner stumbled and limped into the room - several were brought in senseless on stretchers - the scene seemed to be populated by exhausted boat people rescued after weeks of exposure and deprivation at sea.'
' As a photographer calmly shot off a roll of film a foot from her face, Manuela Machado of Mexico and another runner stood vomiting violently into a potted palm.'
' Several competitors lay prone and gasping on the ground as water was poured over them; others stood hunched over, grasping their abdomens.'
' If anyone moved at all, it was with agonised faces and the slowest of hobbles.'
' These are not the sort of scenes likely to promote enthusiasm for marathon running or for the ideals of Olympic competition.'
' Chris Brasher, organiser of the London marathon, was on hand to witness the suffering, and was incensed.'
' Male marathon runners will face the same kind of problems with heat, humidity, and an over-demanding terrain, he said.'
" In his opinion, gearing the marathon to prime-time TV viewing and having the event end at the top of a hill for the sake of stadium spectators was unjustified and a 'sell-out to commercialism."
" 'To put on the marathon in the late afternoon, rather than first thing in the morning (the normal practice), and then to make them run 4km up a hill is just criminal in my opinion,' said Brasher, a former Olympic gold medal athlete and noted sportswriter."
" I spoke to Britain's Steve Brace, winner of the Paris marathon in 1989 and 1990, the Berlin marathon last year and a competitor in the Barcelona event."
" He agrees that the run will be highly demanding, and while he regards Olympic marathon running as a pinnacle of his career, he is cautious about tomorrow's slog."
' Like almost all the athletes running tomorrow, Brace is a professional runner who specialises in marathons.'
' He takes an objective, long-term view of his profession.'
' As an income-earner, marathon running is an activity with liabilities and limitations, and requires business management as well as physical ability.'
' The winner of the London marathon earns a tidy Dollars 50,000 and the New York, Boston and Japanese runs are all in the same prize-winning category.'
' But these and less financially-rewarding events are physically debilitating, and can only be won if a competitor is in top physical shape.'
' With their careers and financial prospects in mind, top-level runners normally only run two marathons a year.'
' As Brace says, when you have only two pay-days out of 365, you choose, plan and train for them with great care.'
' Brace trains extremely carefully indeed.'
" 'Running a marathon is the easy part,' he says."
" 'The hard part is the lead-up to achieving the performance level required'."
' He starts training three months before an event by running 80 miles a week and then building progressively.'
' For the last six weeks he runs 120 miles a week.'
' Normally he would hope that such a routine brings a pay-off.'
' But the Olympic marathon is an exception: the only top-level marathon that carries no prize money.'
" Brace says that in spite of the prestige and possible financial spin-offs involved, 'it does not necessarily make sense to run to win'."
' Given the highly demanding nature of the course and their desire to preserve physical condition for races that do bring in money, he says, many runners will give less than their best effort.'
' Nonetheless, there are plenty whose considerations stretch beyond the purely financial.'
' Italian Gelindo Bordin, who came first in the 1988 Seoul Olympic marathon, is a strong contender.'
" So is Djibouti's Ahmed Salah, who came third in Seoul."
' Ibrahim Hussein of Kenya and Hiromi Taniguchi of Japan are also possible winners.'
' None of them, though, will make a molehill out of the steep and formidable ascent of Montjuic .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page IX'
' LA030290-0075'
' 183603'
' March 2, 1990, Friday, Home Edition'
' Sports; Part C; Page 1; Column 4; Sports Desk'
' 704 words'
' HUMAN BILLBOARDS RUN IN MARATHON'
' By JULIE CART, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' Try to think of Sunday\'s Los Angeles Marathon less as a "happening," which it surely is; or a world-class athletic event, which it may become but is not now .'
' Look at it more as a moving advertising opportunity, human billboards running 26.2 miles through the city on live television .'
" With that kind of exposure to a potential 12 million Southern Californians, it's no wonder that in only five years the L. A."
" Marathon has become the best-marketed, slickest, most modern and sponsor-driven of the world's major marathons."
' It may not be an overstatement that the L. A.'
" Marathon is one of the country's best-marketed sports events of any kind ."
' Depending on your point of view, this may or may not be good news.'
" Massive marketing campaigns and major sponsors lining up for a seat on the money wagon do not make L. A. an elite race, give it prestige or attract the world's best runners."
' However, they do generate a tremendous amount of money for all concerned .'
' And that may yet transform this race, if  as marathon President Bill Burke said this week  the total purse of $202,520 is increased by $100,000 next year and significantly more money is added for appearance fees to lure top athletes .'
' The lineup of commercial support is impressive.'
' The race has Mercedes-Benz of North America as its presenting sponsor, making it one of 10 companies that have not only paid the race organizers to be called sponsors, but have also put more money into the race either outright or by providing products and services.'
' Mercedes provides automobiles for the top male and female finishers .'
" The Times is one of the race's more generous sponsors."
" According to Will Kern, director of Times special events, this year's marathon has received almost $500,000 worth of donated advertising space ."
' For this, the newspaper has received more than $50,000 in contributions to the Times Fund charity, Kern said .'
' In addition, the marathon sells its name to licensees and suppliers, who donate everything from fruit and water to the official salted snack and the official hair-growth product .'
" The race's marketing-oriented philosophy can be traced to Burke and marathon Vice President Marie Patrick ."
' "It was because of our backgrounds in business," said Patrick, who came to the marathon from sports marketing in tennis.'
' "We\'re not runners, never have been.'
' We knew that you have to have big dollars in the beginning.'
' From there you can move forward to be a major event" .'
' Burke and Patrick have formed a persuasive and successful recruiting team .'
' According to Mary Reiling, national event manager for AT&T, the L.A.'
' Marathon\'s "sponsor-friendly" approach is a big incentive .'
' "I\'ve worked a lot of events with a lot of different promoters, but they are by far the most creative group I\'ve ever seen," she said .'
' Mercedes-Benz, which also sponsors marathons in New York and San Francisco, likes the fact that the race gives them a foothold in their No. 1 market .'
' "The whole marketing approach of Bill Burke is great for sponsors," said Linda Paulmeno, manager of press relations for Mercedes-Benz.'
' "The whole race is very marketing-oriented" .'
' The race depends on sponsors for the bulk of its operating budget, which supports a year-round full-time staff.'
' Patrick said the cost to sponsors varies from "the mid-six-figure range to over $1 million".'
' The fees depend on the services and products offered by a firm.'
' Trade-outs are common .'
' The marathon receives several hundred thousand dollars from KCOP (Channel 13) for the television rights, and the race has also been sold to cable and will be covered by radio.'
' The sponsors also work together for mutual benefit.'
" For example, AT&T is buying commercial time on Channel 13's broadcast, and Channel 13 is providing updates on the AT&T Friendship Cup, an international race within the race ."
' In fact, television makes the race more attractive to sponsors, who figure to multiply their exposure .'
' Richard Lipeles, president of PacifiCare Health Systems, said sponsorship in the race helps separate his company in a congested health-care market.'
' Also, the company provides headbands to all runners.'
' "Certainly, we\'d love it if every runner wore our headband during the race," he said .'
' RUNNING; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION BROADCASTS; LOS ANGELES MARATHON; MARATHONS; SPONSORS; MARKETING; LOS ANGELES TIMES; MERCEDES BENZ OF NORTH AMERICA INC'
' LA121090-0095'
' 320384'
' December 10, 1990, Monday, San Diego County Edition'
' Sports; Part C; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk'
' 977 words'
' THEY ARE NOVICES NO MORE;'
' SAN DIEGO MARATHON: MARTINEZ, SMITH, RELATIVELY NEW TO LONG-DISTANCE RUNNING, CHRISTEN A NEW COURSE WITH VICTORIES .'
' By KIM Q. BERKSHIRE, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' OCEANSIDE'
' Their common ground pretty much ended when the miles of asphalt to the finish line did .'
' By the time most people were starting their first cup of coffee Sunday morning, Benjamin Paredez Martinez of Ecatepec, Mexico, and Kathy Smith of Newport Beach were crowned winners in the San Diego Marathon at the Oceanside pier, efforts than earned them $2,000 apiece .'
' The runs set records on the new North County course, but the times, even helped by warm breezes and clear, 74-degree conditions, were hardly blistering.'
' Martinez, 29, finished in 2 hours 19 minutes 3 seconds, 36 seconds faster than Doug Kurtis of Northville, Mich.'
" Smith's 2:43:05 seemed days quicker than the 2:52:12 posted by Escondido's Mindy Ireland ."
" In years past, the marathon's mystery often has been who the leader was, not how he got there."
' Runners, often from Mexico, would register late, and race officials were at their wits end when the media screamed to know the identity of the leader .'
' This year, officials made sure there were no mystery men out on the course.'
' They knew who Martinez was, but no one was sure how he was able to practically appear out of nowhere to take the lead from Alfredo Rosas of San Pedro going into the 25-mile mark .'
' What Martinez did, was start out slow and deliberate.'
' Through an interpreter, Martinez said he started out running 5:15 or 5:20 miles.'
' Rosas and a pack of as many as eight came out at a pace seven to 10 seconds quicker per mile .'
' "I knew it would kill them, that they would never keep it up," said Martinez, who won with a 5:18-mile pace.'
' "I had to have patience and run from the back" .'
' After the 14-mile mark, the pack has already thinned to just Rosas, Danny Bustos, Doug Kurtis and Ernesto Gutierrez, who ran single file for a time.'
' Martinez and Martin Rodriguez Rivera held back, but Martinez soon heard a little voice that told him to move or be removed from contention .'
' "The first 10-15 miles, I could have been in 1,000th place," Martinez said.'
' "I didn\'t care.'
' Then I got worried" .'
' Martinez left Rivera, and started on the chase.'
" Since Martinez hadn't been seen earlier, it originally was thought the figure gainly ground slowly but methodically from Mile 21 to Mile 24 was San Diego's Henry Chio ."
" Wrong. Martinez' late kick caught Rosas, who had broken away on his own for a three-mile lead at Mile 21, cramped and been surprised at the 23-mile mark ."
' "I tied up, there was nothing I could do," said Rosas, who was third in 2:19.49.'
' "As he started closing, that\'s when my legs really started getting sore.'
' I tried to just hang on, to hang in there, but he shot ahead of me" .'
' Before Martinez took the lead for good  a uphill surge at Mile 25  it appeared Rosas was hearing footsteps and was looking over his shoulder to see who was gaining on him .'
' Not so, said Rosas.'
' "The police on the bikes were telling me how close he was," he said .'
' It was the second marathon in two weeks that Kurtis, 38, has run, and almost won.'
' The Bangkok Marathon in November was his 13th of the year, his 112th to date .'
" The only recurring theme in Martinez' and Smith's backgrounds  other than the 26.2 miles they ran  was that they are novices at long-distance running, this was their first victory at this distance and that they are both teachers ."
' Martinez is a world-class biathlete who finished third at the World Duathlon Championship two weeks ago near Palm Springs.'
' He has run only two marathons before Sunday.'
' He teaches physical education in his hometown, 10-15 miles outside of Mexico City .'
' Smith, 24, was a 5,000- and 10,000-meter specialist at Stanford but is now focusing on longer distances.'
' She is a fourth- through sixth-grade teacher at College Park in Irvine .'
' She was holding class with reporters long before Ireland, 39, was carried into a room for mandatory drug testing  the United States Olympic Committee Drug Testing Program randomly selected this race to administer tests to the top finishers .'
' "My goal was to come out here, be as low-key as possible and try to qualify for the trials," said Smith, who finished fourth last year and ran a personal-best time Sunday.'
' She met and beat the Olympic Trials qualifying standard of 2:45 .'
' Smith said she and Ireland ran together  they even chatted  through the 20-mile mark, until Smith got her feet working faster than her mouth .'
" Having run with Ireland last year in the San Diego Marathon, Smith knew a little of Ireland's racing style ."
' "She\'s really tough in the latter part of a race," Smith said.'
' "I wanted to hang back with her, so then she could carry me through the latter part.'
' She hung in pretty well with me" .'
' Smith earlier this year ran the Long Beach Marathon, where she finished seventh but has been concentrating on this distance for just a year.'
' She is getting smarter about it .'
' "Last year I led from Miles 13 to 22," Smith said.'
' "This year\'s it\'s just a matter of maturity.'
' And the hills were positive for me" .'
' Martinez said entered this event because he knew the field was weak and his chances were good .'
' "I knew Rosas and Kurtis were good, but it was a relatively weak field," he said .'
' But weak field or not, the 4,000-plus runners who participated in the event seemed to relish the experience, as all the problems the marathon has had to deal with faded as each runner crossed the finish line .'
' "It\'s a beautiful course, and this was a great marathon," one runner told race director Lynn Flanagan .'
' "I can\'t believe it went off so well," said another to a volunteer.'
' "You'd never know anything had happened that was at all an inconvenience" .'
" DeAnna Sodoma of Escondido won her first marathon wheelchair race in 2:17:52; Saul Mendoza Hernandez of Mexico won the men's division in 1:57:50 ."
" James Sheremeta of San Diego won the men's half marathon in 1:08:59; Jeanne Lassee-Johnson was the women's half winner in 1:16:15 ."
' Photo, COLOR, (A1) Off and Running: It was crowded at the start of the San Diego Marathon in Oceanside Sunday.'
' Benjamin Paredez Martinez of Mexico and Kathy Smith of Newport Beach were winners.'
' DAVID McNEW / Los Angeles Times; Photo, Benjamin Paradez Martinez is the surprise winner of the 1990 San Diego Marathon.'
' DAVID MCNEW / Los Angeles Times'
' Game Story'
' SJMN91-06105230'
' 06105230'
' ROAD; RACING; CHAMPIONSHIP; BOSTON; FORECAST'
' Suicide or sense?'
" The answer may decide the men's winner of Monday's Boston Marathon."
' For the women, the story line is more personal.'
" Can Ingrid Kristiansen and Joan Benoit Samuelson, the two fastest women's marathoners in history, return to their past glory after having their second babies or is a wave of runners ready to sweep past them?"
' Sports'
' EARLY SPEED MAY TURN BOSTON MARATHON INTO RACE OF ATTRITION'
' And for the sentimentalists, there will be 83-year-old Johnny Kelley starting in his 60th Boston Marathon.'
' There have only been 35 editions of this race run without him.'
' The last three Boston marathons have turned into reckless speed duels.'
" They have produced five of the top 10 times and eight of the top 15 in the race's storied history."
' They also have resulted in a race of attrition, with many of the early speedsters burning out completely or faltering in the late stages.'
' Along the historic route that begins in Hopkinton, west of Boston, and ends in Copley Square in the Back Bay section of the city, checkpoint records have fallen at an alarming rate.'
' For example, all 11 checkpoint records were shattered through the first 20 miles last year, either by Simon Robert Naali or Juma Ikangaa, both of Tanzania.'
' Neither won.'
' The winner was 1988 Olympic champion Gelindo Bordin, who outsmarted the early pacesetters by running a patient, calculating race.'
" Running alone about 200 meters behind a pack of six Africans, Bordin passed them all by 21 miles and went on to win in 2 hours, 8 minutes, 19 seconds, the second-fastest time in the race's history, behind only the 2:07:51 by Rob de Castella in 1986."
' Ikangaa finished a distant second in 2:09:52.'
' It was his third consecutive runner-up finish in Boston.'
' Ikangaa is back again, along with several other formidable Africans.'
" They include Ibrahim Hussein of Kenya, the 1988 winner in 2:08:43, the third-fastest time in Boston and one second ahead of Ikangaa; Abebe Mekonnen of Ethiopia, the 1989 champion in 2:09:06, Boston's eighth-best time; Douglas Wakiihuri of Kenya, the 1987 world champion and 1988 Olympic silver medalist who is making his Boston debut; and Naali, the third-place finisher in the 1990 Commonwealth Games."
" Among those chasing them will be John Treacy, the 1984 Olympic silver medalist and the third-place finisher in Boston in 1988 and 1989; Geoff Smith, the Boston winner in 1984-85; Ed Eyestone, the top-ranked U.S. marathoner; Salvador Garcia, the runner-up to Wakiihuri in last year's New York City Marathon; and Rolando Vera, who finished third in his marathon debut in Boston in 1990."
" The women's division also is filled with many respectable entrants."
' Foremost among them are Kristiansen, the 35-year-old Norwegian who holds the world record of 2:21:06 and won in Boston in 1986 and 1989, and Samuelson, 33, the U.S.-record holder at 2:21:21, 1984 Olympic gold medalist and Boston champion in 1979 and 1983.'
' Challenging them will be Uta Pippig, Wanda Panfil and Kim Jones.'
' Pippig finished second in Boston last year in a career-best 2:28:03.'
' Panfil won the London Marathon in 2:26:31, her personal best, and won the New York City Marathon in 1990 .'
' Associated Press'
' USA'
' Boston'
' Morning Final'
' SJ'
' San Jose Mercury News'
' 910414'
' Sunday'
' April'
' 16D'
' 1991'
' WEST'
' CA'
' 527'
' Sunday April 14, 1991 00105230,SJ1'
' Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News'
' 1'
' ENG'
' SJMN91-06171237'
' 06171237'
' RUNNING; RACING; CHAMPIONSHIP; NAME; LIST; SAN-FRANCISCO'
" The women's field for Sunday's San Francisco Marathon appears mighty impressive to race President Rich Nichols, who didn't have to do much coaxing to get the highly ranked women to enter."
' "This year\'s women\'s field is interesting because most of the competitors called us," said Nichols.'
' "We didn\'t have to do the calling like we normally would have to" .'
' Sports'
' ELITE FIELD ENHANCES MARATHON TOP WOMEN EAGER TO RUN IN S.F. EVENT'
" The Olympic trials, scheduled for January, have made Nichols' job much easier this year."
' Most top-ranked U.S. women are looking for any summer-time marathon in which to run and the San Francisco version offers excellent conditions.'
' The hills of San Francisco make this marathon challenging.'
' The weather, however, makes it one of the few enticing races held from June to September.'
' Early morning temperatures range in the low 50s in late June.'
' "This is the only place in the world where you can have a marathon in the middle of summer," Nichols said.'
" Defending champ back; Last year's winner, Janis Klecker of Minnetonka, Minn., is entered."
' The field also boasts Janine Aiello of Albuquerque, N.M. Michelle Bush-Cuke of Berrien Springs, Mich. Christine Gibbons of Elmwood, N.J. Lesley Lahane of Chestnut Hills, Mass. Julie Shea-Graw of Raleigh, N.C., and Jane Welzel of Fort Collins, Colo.'
' All seven women have run marathons under the 2-hour, 40-minute barrier.'
' Klecker turned in a 2:39:52 on the 26.2-mile course.'
' Welzel is the 1990 national champion, Gibbons has won 26 marathons, Lahane is a former cross-country national champion and Aiello twice has finished second in San Francisco.'
" A test for Shea-Graw; Shea-Graw, 32, finished third in the 1981 New York City Marathon and was consistently ranked among the top five American runners throughout most of the early '80s."
' She was the top qualifier for the 1980 Olympics team that missed the Moscow Summer Games because of a U.S. boycott.'
" This will be Shea-Graw's first race outside of North Carolina since 1986, when she took time off to have a child."
' "I\'ve run some local races," Shea-Graw said.'
' "This is going to be a test for me.'
' If it goes well, then I\'ll up the ante and give my training the time that is needed to become competitive again."; Shea-Graw\'s best time is 2:30:11.'
' "I had some major injuries and wanted to have a child," Shea-Graw said.'
' "But now it\'s time to get on with my career" .'
' PEDRO GOMEZ, Mercury News Staff Writer'
' USA'
' Morning Final'
' SJ'
' San Jose Mercury News'
' 910619'
' Wednesday'
' June'
' 8F'
' 1991'
' WEST'
' CA'
' 403'
' Wednesday June 19, 1991 00171237,SJ1'
' Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News'
' 1'
' ENG'
' SJMN91-06312120'
' 06312120'
' RUNNING; RACING; GUIDELINE'
' TO MOST PEOPLE, marathons and vacations are mutually exclusive.'
' Vacation, according to Webster, means "freedom from any activity; rest; respite."; A marathon, says the same source, is "a footrace of 26 miles, 385 yards, run over an open course" .'
' Venture'
' VACATION?'
" HOW 'BOUT A MARATHON?"
' Venture  Celebrating the Active Life'
' But a unique subset has formed: people who like to do both at the same time.'
' And to help these folks along, companies arrange tours for marathon vacations.'
' The result?'
' Bangkok in November, London in April and Stockholm in May.'
' "Skiers have mountain ranges, tennis players have resorts, why can\'t a runner take a marathon vacation"? said Thorn Gilligan, president of Marathon Tours in Boston.'
' "A runner should be able to enjoy a closed city for a day.'
' It\'s a celebration for the sport as much as a competition."; Gilligan took 5,500 people last year on 20 tours to countries from Bermuda to Moscow.'
' In addition to air fare and hotel, runners are guaranteed spots in restricted entry races such as the London Marathon.'
' Qualifying times are not required.'
" London, the most popular European city to visit, holds the world's largest marathon (April 12 next year)."
" Berlin's race (Sept."
' 27, 1992) has grown with the demise of the wall.'
' "Most marathons take you through cities, so you get a chance to see things you'd never see on a sightseeing bus," said Fred Lebow, president of the New York Roadrunner\'s Club and director of the New York Marathon.'
' Lebow has run in 32 marathons, including London, Paris, Rome, Stockholm, Iceland, Seoul and Vienna.'
' "The most exciting thing is the start of the race," he said.'
' "Each city has something unique."; The cities are different, but most marathons include a carbo-loading pasta party the night before, medical exams, a post-race celebration, commemorative T-shirts and awards to finishers.'
' Entry fees vary; Brussels is $16, Venice $40.'
' Marathon Tours includes the entry price in the package.'
' Going to Bermuda, for example, costs approximately $900 from San Francisco.'
' The price includes round-trip air fare, four days and three nights at the Grotto Bay Beach hotel (per person, based on double occupancy), full breakfasts and dinners, a welcome cocktail party and post-race parties and discounts.'
' England has similar organizations: Sports Tours International and Keith Prowse, a company that specializes in British theater, sports and concert tours.'
" But it isn't necessary to run 26.2 miles to go on a running vacation, especially if it's a family trip."
" Some marathons, like Portland's, include additional races: a five-mile run, a five-mile walk and a kids run."
' Tel Aviv has a half-marathon and a fun run.'
' Budapest offers a half-marathon and a mini-marathon along the Danube.'
' There are also trips that incorporate running into the sightseeing schedule.'
" Running coach Pat Savage and Hal Higdon, a senior writer for Runner's World, are taking a group to Ireland in June."
' The eight-day trip will leave from Chicago and will include sightseeing, guided runs and a fun run from Malahide Castle to Swords.'
' "On a running vacation you plan something around running everyday," Higdon said.'
' "We know the unique scenic routes and put together special runs."; Some runs are intriguing because of current events.'
' The Tel Aviv Marathon course went past houses hit by Scud missiles during the Gulf War.'
" The Belgrade Marathon was held despite Yugoslavia's turmoil."
' The Munich course is the same as the 1972 Olympic route and finishes in the same stadium.'
" Running 26 miles just to see a city definitely isn't for everyone, but at the very least, it's a way to kill two birds with one stone."
' In the recent Chicago Marathon, a German man ran with a camera, snapping photos every few miles.'
" IF YOU'RE INTERESTED; If you're interested in combining a vacation and marathon, here are some firms to contact:; (box) Marathon Tours, 108 Main St., Charlestown, Mass. 02129."
' (617) 242-7845.'
' (box) Roadrunner Tours, 2815 Lake Shore Dr., Michigan City, Ind. 46360.'
' (219) 879-0133.'
' (box) Keith Prowse, based in England.'
' (8OO) 6MY-TOUR.'
' (box) Sports Tours International, 91 Walkdon Rd.'
' , Walkdon, Worslay, Manchester M28 5DQ, United Kingdom.'
' (061) 703-8161 .'
' JULIE DEARDORFF, Special to Venture'
' USA'
' Morning Final'
' SJ'
' San Jose Mercury News'
' 911107'
' Thursday'
' November'
' 7G'
' 1991'
' WEST'
' CA'
' 691'
' Thursday, November 7, 1991 00312120,SJ1'
' Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News'
' 1'
' ENG'
' WSJ870220-0106'
' Los Angeles Tries to Make Its Marathon Both a Civil Festival and a Profit Center - By Frederick Rose Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal'
' 02/20/87'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)'
' MARKETING, ADVERTISING (MKT)'
' LOS ANGELES'
' A crowd the size of a small city will squeeze past a starting line here March 1 to run 26 miles, 385 yards.'
' And cheering every step of that distance will be more than a dozen corporate sponsors and licensees.'
' Makers of cars, soda pop, sportswear, copiers, computers  even a hospital  have tagged their names to the Los Angeles Marathon.'
' In the promoter\'s words, this run is "a marketing event on legs," reflecting marathoning\'s growing importance in upscale product promotions.'
' Runners, it seems, are a well-heeled lot.'
' A study by Mercedes-Benz found that 42% of family heads making $40,000 a year or more jog regularly.'
' Of potential buyers showing up at Mercedes dealers, 47% are joggers.'
' With those numbers in mind, the car maker has become a sponsor of three marathons  in New York, Boston and Los Angeles  as well as other running races.'
' Marathons have had corporate backing for some time.'
' But Los Angeles is ahead of the pack in making distance running a commercial spectacle.'
' The city that invented the corporate-sponsored Olympics has created a marathon unlike others  artfully dressed as an Olympic-type amateur race, but built from the ground up to make money for the closely held company that controls it  as well as for the city.'
' "I took air and made an event," says William Burke, the founder and president of Los Angeles Marathon Inc.'
' For a man whose running days ended with his high school track team, Mr. Burke is turning a lot of heads in the world of marathoning.'
' Last year, its first time out, the Los Angeles race attracted nearly 11,000 runners  four times the number forecast and enough to make it the third  largest race in the U.S.'
' The event also pulled in about $4 million in cash and services from its sponsors, leaving the organizers with $370,000 in red ink.'
' This year, Mr. Burke and his partner, Marie Patrick, expect to gross about $5 million in cash and services and to break even.'
' Next year, they say, a profit is possible.'
' More than 18,000 runners are expected this year.'
' An audience of perhaps a million and a half or more will line the route, drawn in part by advertisements on 75 million Coca-Cola cans and 2,500 billboards around the Los Angeles area.'
' Marketing experts say the festive atmosphere of big crowds in the streets makes marathons attractive to sponsors.'
' For the cost of a 30-second ad on the Super Bowl, a company can sponsor a marathon and "take over a city," says Lesa Ukman, editor of Special Events Reports, a Chicago-based newsletter.'
' The Los Angeles organizers and sponsors have perhaps done more than their counterparts elsewhere to publicize the event.'
' Los Angelenos are seeing plugs for the race on millions of grocery bags, milk cartons and loaves of bread, in addition to soda cans, billboards and other sources.'
' The venerable New York Marathon is taking note.'
' The New York Road Runners Club, organizer of the race, stopped promoting the event some years ago because it had all the runners it wanted.'
" Now, Fred Lebow, the group's president, says he is encouraging sponsors to promote the race as the Los Angeles sponsors do."
' The promotion in Los Angeles is unabashed.'
' "We tell people that if they\'re looking for a new way to crack the Los Angeles market, this is it," says Mr. Burke.'
' The pitch has attracted the likes of Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Los Angeles; Vons Cos., a large supermarket chain; the Los Angeles Times; the Sears Savings Bank unit of Sears, Roebuck & Co. Eastman Kodak Co., and Tandem Computers Inc.'
' One supporter is Ellesse USA, a sportswear and shoe producer.'
' A $50,000 fee enables the company to use the marathon\'s name in its ads; Ellesse will spend an additional $100,000 dressing race personnel in T-shirts and warm-up suits, showing its clothes at the marathon\'s public "Expo" of sponsors\' wares, and posting a dozen big street banners along the course.'
' The company has rented more than 500 billboards at a cut-rate price of $120,000 from Patrick Media Group, a marathon sponsor.'
' The discount, about 50%, was important.'
' "We couldn\'t have bought that kind of exposure normally," says Susan Cialone, Ellesse\'s advertising director.'
' Ellesse, which also sponsors the New York run, finds the West Coast event more freewheeling.'
' "They have let us do whatever we want," says Ms. Cialone.'
' For instance, product banners along the route  almost impossible to arrange in New York  are a snap in Los Angeles.'
' The city, in fact, is a partner in the race.'
' After competitive bidding, it awarded an eight-year contract to Los Angeles Marathon Inc. to put on the race.'
' The exclusive franchise calls for the race organizers this year to pay a minimum $60,000 fee or 4% of gross cash receipts to the city.'
' The organizers also will pay the cost of city services for the marathon, estimated at $100,000.'
" The race sponsors and city officials are trading freely on the good will generated by Los Angeles's role as host of the 1984 Olympics."
' The logo of the marathon is a shield with laurel wreath.'
' Some posters show the Los Angeles Coliseum with its torch and giant Olympic symbol.'
' "The World Returns to Los Angeles," proclaims one Mercedes-Benz ad.'
' Race directors are called "commissioners," a term borrowed from the 1984 Olympic organization, in which Mr. Burke was commissioner of tennis.'
' And like the Olympics, Los Angeles Marathon Inc., portraying the race as a civic celebration, thrives on volunteers.'
' Some 7,500 people will work for free to monitor the course on race day.'
" And two-thirds of the race's office staff work without pay."
' "I couldn\'t buy this," Mr. Burke says, gesturing around the crowded race headquarters.'
' Not everyone works for free.'
' Big-name runners, for instance, want to be paid a lot.'
' And here, the organizers have pinched pennies.'
" While some runners will be paid to appear, this year's field, like last year's, lacks some of the superstars who race in Boston, New York and London."
' Grete Waitz, one of the best woman marathoners, wanted $100,000 to appear in Los Angeles; she was turned down.'
" Mr. Burke says the Australian runner Rob de Castella made it known through his agent that he wouldn't run any marathons in the spring but, for $25,000, he'd be happy to say the Los Angeles event was tempting."
' Mr. Burke says he slammed down the phone.'
' "We won\'t spend extraordinary amounts of money on any single runner to the detriment of the other runners," he says.'
" Mr. de Castella's agent denies the story entirely."
' What Los Angeles lacks in superstars, it plans to make up for in numbers.'
" This year's race may challenge New York and London as the largest marathon ever run."
' Some 20,500 started the New York race last year.'
" Mr. Lebow, organizer of the New York event, says next year's Los Angeles Marathon will surpass that number."
' For one sponsor, this may be a mixed blessing.'
' Orthopaedic Hospital, a not-for-profit institution whose sponsorship is part of a publicity campaign, provides emergency care stations along the marathon route.'
' Last year, one of every 20 runners needed aid.'
' Along with sprains, strains and blisters came more serious cases of exhaustion and hypothermia.'
' A spokeswoman says: "We advised 250 people to quit the race" .'
' WSJ910326-0090'
' 910326-0090 .'
" He Paints Still Lifes But John Kelley, 83, Is Still on the Move - He Lives for Boston Marathon Which He'll Be in April 15, Running His 60th Race  By Joseph Pereira Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal"
' 03/26/91'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1'
' RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC) ENTERTAINMENT AND LEISURE (ENT)'
" EAST DENNIS, Mass.  It's 5:30 a.m., an icy rain is falling from an indigo sky, and there's a stiff northeaster."
' This Cape Cod country road is deserted, but for the sweaty silhouette of John Kelley.'
' Bounding up a hill in his thin green Windbreaker, with sand from the beach blowing into his face, Mr. Kelley shouts over the howling gale: "This isn\'t too bad, you know," he says, though the wind chill factor is about 20 below .'
' Mr. Kelley is in training for the Boston Marathon  his 60th Boston Marathon.'
' And even at the age of 83, he probably will finish ahead of a large number of the 13,000 runners expected to compete  officially or unofficially  on April 15.'
' Bill Rodgers, a four-time Boston Marathon winner who plans to run again this year, marvels at Mr.'
' Kelley: "It\'s incomprehensible that a man his age is doing what he\'s doing.'
" I'm struggling at the age of 43."
' . . . This isn\'t golf".'
' Even the thought of running a course of 26 miles and 385 yards leaves some of Mr.'
" Kelley's rivals of yesteryear gasping."
' "Aghast is more like it," says Leslie Pawson, 86, a three-time Boston champion who ran against Mr. Kelley half a century ago.'
' "My doctor says: `No running, whatsoever\'.'
' I can\'t even remember when I ran my last marathon".'
' John Adelbert Kelley is a throwback to a time when marathoners did it for glory and cab fare.'
' A two-time winner in Boston (1935 and 1945) and runner-up seven times, Mr. Kelley is to be the oldest competitor in the race this year  as he has been for 15 years.'
' Mr. Kelley is such an institution that Hopkinton, Mass., where the race begins, has made him an honorary citizen.'
' ("That means I don\'t have to pay taxes there," he jokes).'
' Two state troopers will run alongside the 5-foot-6, 130-pound Mr. Kelley into Boston so he won\'t be trampled by "groupies," as he calls them, clamoring to shake his hand.'
' Last year, five Japanese runners were waved away by the bodyguards, as they sidled up to the old celebrity during the race.'
' Recalls Suni Tomomitsu, one of the runners: "At first we thought, `Oh, wow, he\'s like Mafia man\'.'
" Then we said, `Oh no, this is nice Johnny Kelley'."
' In Japan, he is awesome".'
" Though he isn't the oldest person ever to enter the Boston Marathon, Mr. Kelley is the oldest to run it."
' Peter Foley, who was born in 1859, was a regular until he was well into his 80s.'
' But he walked the course.'
' Starting at dawn (six hours before the official noon start), Mr. Foley would eventually saunter across the finish line in the moonlight.'
" Of course, Mr. Kelley  not to be confused with the other John Kelley, who won the Boston Marathon in 1957  isn't the runner he was in 1935 when he won the race, in 2 hours, 32 minutes, 7 seconds."
' His best time ever was in 1945: 2 hours, 30 minutes, 40 seconds.'
' Last year he finished in 5 hours, 5 minutes.'
' He hopes to do better in 1991.'
' "That\'s not a prediction, just a goal," he says.'
" When John Kelley first toed the line in 1928, George Bush wasn't yet in kindergarten, Joe DiMaggio was an unknown and Nike was the winged goddess of victory, not a running shoe."
' In those days, Mr. Kelley recalls, he ran in black leather high-jumping shoes that he cut open at the toes with a razor blade.'
' "I would have loved to run with the worst pair of sneakers on the market today," he says.'
" Back then, the sport didn't have much of a following."
' Today, of course, the Boston Marathon is a big deal, covered by TV from start to finish and offering $402,000 altogether in prize money.'
' "The winners get a medal and $55,000," says Mr. Kelley.'
' "I got a medal and beef stew.'
' God bless them," he adds.'
' "They deserve it".'
' The rosy-cheeked, supple Mr. Kelley is a medical wonder.'
' Each year, he visits the Cooper Clinic at the Aerobics Center in Dallas for a battery of endurance tests.'
' "Physiologically, whatever that means, I got all A\'s," Mr. Kelley reports of his checkup four months ago.'
' "What that means," explains Kenneth Cooper, the physician who wrote "Aerobics" and several sequels and is now at work on a book on elderly athletes, "is that Johnny has the body of a man 23 years younger.'
' He\'s going to be one of the stars of my book".'
" Mr. Kelley's resting pulse rate  60 beats a minute  is well below the average person's 72 beats."
" (That's good)."
' On the stress test the clinic gives, Mr. Kelley holds the endurance record for his age group.'
' A mechanic for Boston Edison Co. before he retired in 1972, Mr. Kelley started running in the evenings after work more than six decades ago.'
' His only purpose was to relax and have some fun.'
' "All day long, I did what my boss told me to do," he recalls.'
' "But when I ran at night, I felt free.'
' I ran till I was exhausted".'
" In 1928, when he was 21, he entered his first Boston Marathon but didn't finish."
' He dropped out three-quarters of the way through the race.'
' Then, in 1933, he finished 37th in a field of about 200 runners.'
' In all the years since, he has missed the race just once, in 1967.'
' (He has competed, all told, in 112 marathons, including the 1936 and 1948 Olympics.'
' Mr. Kelley well knows the jagged course from Hopkinton to downtown Boston: The first challenge comes five miles into the race, where a set of little hills can get a psyched runner to waste energy charging up the slopes.'
" A mile and a half later, there's new reason to beware: The smells of Cavanaugh's Bakery can set off hunger pangs."
' An Exxon station in Wellesley marks the halfway point.'
" A steep descent into Newton Lower Falls can jar a tired runner's bones."
' Then, at the end of a long column of oak and maple trees, is Heartbreak Hill, his nemesis.'
' It cost him at least two victories, he says.'
" And finally there's the Haunted Mile, a stretch where many runners have collapsed."
" Boston's skyline, 2 1/2 miles in the distance, can seem so far away."
' Though still going strong, Mr. Kelley acknowledges the marathon gets tougher each year.'
' To compensate, he trains harder.'
' He used to start preparing in earnest at the end of January.'
' "In recent years, I\'ve been in training 12 months a year," he says, though the serious stuff  a daily one-hour run, sprints on the track and long, 2 1/2-hour runs every other week  begins in December.'
" (He doesn't count the miles he puts in, as many long-distance runners obsessively do, but he says he wouldn't object to an estimate of about 50 miles a week)."
' Mr. Kelley always trains at 5 a.m., and alone: "It\'s a quiet time, no traffic; the air is fresh and sweet".'
' His routes vary.'
' In January, he prefers the frozen sands of the beach.'
' With the approach of spring, he takes to the alder and scrub-pine hills and bluffs where the sun can be seen rising over Cape Cod Bay.'
' After his morning run, he spends a couple of hours painting (still lifes and Cape Cod scenes), a hobby he took up about 25 years ago.'
" Unlike many runners, Mr. Kelley doesn't bother with stretching exercises before he runs in the morning."
' "This is my warm up: I empty the dishwasher, I set up the coffeepot, but I don\'t plug it in. I set up the breakfast table.'
' Then I check the outside temperature to see what clothes to wear".'
' He and his wife, Laura, live in a two-bedroom ranch-style house here in East Dennis, with more than 350 trophies, medals and sweat-stained marathon numbers scattered about.'
' He isn\'t particular about brands of shoes ("I wear them all") or what he eats ("I never eat broccoli, but I love steak and ice cream").'
' Mr. Kelley aims to run till he is at least 100 years old.'
' "He\'s a strange man," says Laura Kelley, in awe of her husband\'s vigor.'
' The 82-year-old Mrs. Kelley adds, "I just try to stay in his shadow, but I have a hard time even doing that".'
' In a rare moment of reflection, Mr. Kelley explains what makes him tick: "I paint because I like it.'
' I run because I like it.'
" If for some reason I don't finish the marathon, I don't owe an apology to anyone."
' But I\'ll tell you, the Boston Marathon  with all those people waving  is better than my birthday."'
