' AP900621-0186'
' AP-NR-06-21-90 1947EDT'
' u a AM-US-IranQuake-Structures 06-21 0325'
' AM-US-Iran Quake-Structures,0336'
' Iran Earthquake Caught Victims Asleep in Fragile Homes'
' With AM-Iran-Quake, Bjt'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
' The earthquake that devastated Iran early Thursday took tens of thousands of lives because people were asleep in fragile homes built on flood plains, an earthquake expert said.'
" ``Most casualties from earthquakes are caused by something falling on top of you,'' said Russ Needham, a geophysist with the U.S."
' Geological Survey that monitors ground motion around the world.'
' The quake hit at 12:30 a.m. in Iran, when most of the people were in their homes, Needham said Thursday in a telephone interview from Golden, Colo.'
' At least 25,000 people died and thousands were injured in the quake, which demolished scores of villages and buried thousands of people in the rubble of their homes, Iranian officials said.'
' Needham said most structures in that area are built of a ceramic-type brick or adobe that collapses easily.'
" ``It's very similar to what we had in Armenia,'' he said of the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake that killed about 25,000 people."
' A Soviet parliamentary report later blamed the high number of fatalities on shoddily built buildings.'
" The Armenian quake was measured at 6.9 on the Richter scale, but Thursday's earthquake shook the earth with a magnitude of 7.7."
' The shock wave traveled through the mountainous section of coastal Iran where most of the buildings are built on a flood plain of loosely deposited soil that shifts in an earthquake and allows structures to collapse, he said.'
" The 7.7-magnitude quake was the largest ever recorded in that area, where two major plates of the earth's crust meet, Needhams said."
" ``Iran is in a very active seismic region,'' he said, and that there have been many smaller quakes."
' Twelve earthquakes greater than magnitude 7 have occurred in Iran during the last 30 years, Needhams said.'
' A quake of magnitude 7 is considered a major earthquake, capable of widespread, heavy damage in populated areas .'
' AP900622-0025'
' AP-NR-06-22-90 0329EDT'
' r i PM-IranQuake-Structures 06-22 0302'
' PM-Iran Quake-Structures,0312'
' Iran Earthquake Caught Victims Asleep in Fragile Homes'
' With PM-Iran-Quake, Bjt'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
' The earthquake that struck northern Iran brought reminders of another quake that devastated Soviet Armenia in 1988.'
" Like Thursday's earthquake in Iran, the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake in Armenia killed about 25,000 people."
' Most died in structures that collapsed when the quake hit.'
" ``It's very similar to what we had in Armenia,'' said Russ Needham, a geophysicist with the U.S."
' Geological Survey.'
" The Armenian quake was measured at 6.9 on the Richter scale, but Thursday's earthquake shook the earth with a magnitude of 7.7 according to the U.S."
' Geological Survey.'
' In the Iranian quake, the casualty count was pushed up by the fact that people were indoors and asleep at the time, just after midnight.'
' Many of the victims lived in fragile homes built of a ceramic-type brick or adobe that collapses easily.'
' In the Armenian quake, a Soviet parliamentary report later blamed the high number of fatalities on shoddily built buildings.'
" ``Most casualties from earthquakes are caused by something falling on top of you,'' said Needham in a telephone interview from Golden, Colo."
' The quake struck an area of Iran where most of the buildings are built on a flood plain of loosely deposited soil that shifts in an earthquake and allows structures to collapse, Needham said.'
" The 7.7-magnitude quake was the largest ever recorded in that area, where two major plates of the earth's crust meet, he said."
" ``Iran is in a very active seismic region,'' he said, and that there have been many smaller quakes."
' Twelve earthquakes greater than magnitude 7 have occurred in Iran during the last 30 years, Needham said.'
' A quake of magnitude 7 is considered a major earthquake, capable of widespread, heavy damage in populated areas .'
' AP900623-0022'
' AP-NR-06-23-90 0233EDT'
' r w PM-Iran-Rally 06-23 0490'
' PM-Iran-Rally,460'
' Group Claims Iran Underreporting Earthquake Casualties'
' With PM-Iran-Quake'
' LaserPhoto WX21 of June 22'
' By ROBERT NAYLOR JR .'
' Associated Press Writer'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
" Iran is deliberately underreporting the number of casualties from Thursday's massive earthquake out of fear of a political backlash, leaders of a group seeking to overthrow the country's Islamic leadership say."
" ``The regime is very much fearful of public outrage,'' said Shahin Gobadi, spokesman for the People's Mojahedin of Iran."
" ``They're very much afraid of the political aftershocks''."
" As Gobadi spoke Friday, members of the organization denounced Iran's government at a noisy rally held in a park across the street from the White House."
' Northern Iran was stuck Thursday by an earthquake measuring between 7.3 and 7.7 on the Richter Scale.'
' Iran has told the United Nations that the death toll is at least 36,000, but Gobadi said his organization has received estimates closer to 100,000.'
' Gobadi said the country cannot properly assist earthquake victims because its treasury has been spent in a war with neighboring Iraq and against internal opposition.'
" ``They have been very late in assisting the people,'' he said."
' Sympathy for the earthquake victims was a secondary issue for the chanting, flag-waving rally participants, who also carried signs criticizing their native country.'
" Planning for the event began three weeks before the earthquake, but part of the Friday's activities focused on Iran's stricken residents."
' Gobadi said shoddy housing in which the government forced people to live was the cause for the widespread loss of life.'
' ``This regime has brought them nothing but devastation and misery.'
" This regime has devoted all of its resources to a senseless war with Iraq and to oppression of the people at home,'' he said."
' A U.N.-sponsored cease-fire was declared last year after eight years of the Iran-Iraq war.'
" Iran's Islamic republic was established in 1979 after Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was deposed by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and militants seized the U.S."
' Embassy in Tehran, taking 66 Americans hostage.'
' The United States broke diplomatic relations with Iran in April 1980.'
' The shah died in exile in July 1980, U.S. hostages were freed six months later and Khomeini died last June.'
' Gobadi said his 25-year-old group had helped depose the shah but had no part in organizing the Islamic republic.'
" ``Even in this tragedy for which we grieve we cannot trust the regime in Iran,'' Rep. Mervyn Dymally, D-Calif."
' , told an estimated 3,000 people attending the rally.'
" ``There were many, many victims before this tragedy and there are victims now whose needs need to be addressed by the people of the United States,'' he said."
" Dymally, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, praised President Bush's offer of humanitarian aid to Iran but said Bush must make sure the assistance is channeled through non-government groups."
' The State Department said Friday that Iran was willing to accept earthquake relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian organizations .'
' AP900623-0119'
' AP-NR-06-23-90 1829EDT'
' u i AM-Iran-Aid 06-23 0665'
' AM-Iran-Aid,0691'
' Friendly, Hostile Countries Send Aid To Iran'
' With AM-Iran Quake,Bjt'
' By JOHN WRIGHT'
' Associated Press Writer'
" Countries worldwide, both friendly and hostile to Tehran's Islamic government, sent supplies, medical personnel and condolences to Iran, where about 40,000 people have died in an earthquake."
" Iran's deadliest earthquake since 1976 jolted the northern part of the country Thursday, devastating towns and injuring at least 100,000 people."
' The United States sent a message of condolence and expressed its willingness to provide humanitarian aid.'
' Iran, which has had no diplomatic ties with the United States since the 1979 seizure of hostages at the U.S.'
' Embassy in Tehran, said it would welcome relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian groups.'
' Moderate Arab countries with which Iran has had prickly relations _ Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan _ also offered their support.'
" An official statement distributed late Friday by the Saudi Press Agency said the kingdom followed with ``deep sorrow'' the news of the tragedy."
' ``The kingdom of Saudi Arabia ...'
" declares its readiness to help in extending assistance to those harmed by the tragedy, wishing to help ease the pain of the afflicted from among the sons of the Iranian Moslem nation,'' it said."
' Jordan announced Saturday it was sending medical aid to Iran, but details were not immediately clear.'
' King Hussein sent condolences to Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani on Friday in what is believed to be the first direct contact between Jordanian and Iranian heads of state in almost a decade.'
' Jordan backed Iraq in the eight-year Iran-Iraq war, which ended with a cease-fire in August 1988, and at one point sent hundreds of Jordanian volunteers to fight alongside Iraqi soldiers.'
' Egypt was sending two military planes with supplies, the Middle East News Agency reported.'
" President Hosni Mubarak offered the aid ``in the framework of Egypt's concern to provide help for brothers and friends, especially at times of natural disasters''."
' The official Soviet news agency Tass reported that a professional lifesaving team from the Armenian capital of Yerevan flew Saturday to Iran.'
' The team gained experience in the devastating 1988 earthquake in Armenia that killed 25,000 people.'
' Thousands of residents in the predominantly Moslem Soviet republic of Azerbaijan, which borders Iran, donated tons of flour, rice and tea, and contributed more than $500,000 to a special earthquake fund, Tass said.'
' The Italian Red Cross sent a plane to Iran Saturday with relief supplies, including tents, blankets and medicine.'
' In Paris, the French government, which already has sent a 200-member civil defense team _ including rescuers, medical personnel and search dogs _ said Saturday it would send an entire mobile hospital unit if Iran wanted it.'
' In West Germany, the Foreign Ministry said that it was sending tents, blankets, hospital equipment and cooking equipment to Iran.'
' Eight tons was being shipped Saturday and the government has chartered a jumbo jet to transport 100 tons of equipment Monday.'
' At the Vatican, Pope John Paul II sent aid to earthquake victims and a message of condolence to Iranian leaders.'
" The Vatican said in a statement that the donation of an unspecified amount was to ``provide for the most immediate needs of the population hurt by this huge earthquake''."
" John Paul also sent a telegram to the papal nuncio, or diplomatic representative, in Tehran saying the pope ``is praying fervently for the wounded and the families of the victims''."
' The Indian government said it would donate medicine, blankets and other relief supplies worth more than $500,000.'
" China's Red Cross said it was sending $106,000 worth of relief supplies, state-run television said Saturday."
' The Polish government was sending 5 tons of powdered milk, a ton of bed sheets, a ton of medicine and 3 tons of blankets and clothing, according to Polish media reports.'
' Malaysia was providing more than $90,000 in relief aid.'
' Foreign Ministry Secretary-General Ahmad Kamil Jaafar told reporters Saturday the money would be used to buy medicine, food, powdered milk, tents and other essential items .'
' AP900624-0011'
' AP-NR-06-24-90 1145EDT'
' r i AM-Iran-US 06-24 0292'
' AM-Iran-US,0301'
' Radical Paper Blames U.S., In Part, For Quake Damage'
' With AM-Iran-Quake, Bjt'
' TEHRAN, Iran (AP)'
" An anti-American newspaper in Iran said Sunday the United States is partly to blame for the death of tens of thousands of people in last week's earthquake."
" The ``criminal role of America in Iran's past became evident once again in the recent earthquake,'' the Jomhuri Islami said in an editorial reported by the official Islamic Republic News Agency."
" ``Our people, even under the rubble, chant `Death to America' and pray to God to cut off the hands of the United States ..."
" even those hands stretched out to help,'' it said."
" It argued that by ``plundering Iran's oil and other resources'' for 25 years, the United States had prevented the use of even a small part of the national wealth for urban development projects and ``advanced (anti-seismic) building construction systems''."
" ``Even after its expulsion from Iran, the U.S. government by imposing economic sanctions and launching several other plots, halted the renovation of the country,'' the editorial added."
' The newspaper was implying that with these actions the United States had blocked the diversion of funds to earthquake safety measures.'
" ``If the United States has real humanitarian objectives and intended to help the Iranian nation, it should do only one thing, stop hatching plots,'' the newspaper said."
" It called on Iranians to reject relief offers by the United States and ``other governments whose hands are stained with the blood of the Iranian people''."
' Iran, at odds with the United States since the 1979 seizure of hostages at the U.S.'
' Embassy in Tehran, has said it would welcome relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian groups.'
' The two nations have no diplomatic ties .'
' AP900625-0153'
' AP-NR-06-25-90 2129EDT'
' r i AM-Quake-List 06-25 0139'
' AM-Quake-List,0150'
' Five Decades of Major Earthquakes Worldwide'
' With AM-Iran-Quake, Bjt'
' By The Associated Press'
" The estimated 50,000 dead in the Iran earthquake make it the world's fourth deadliest quake in the past half-century."
' Here is a list of the major quakes of the past 50 years.'
' The location is followed by the Richter scale magnitude and the number of dead.'
' Iran, June 21, 1990, 7.3 to 7.7 on the Richter scale, 50,000 dead (estimated).'
' Soviet Armenia, Dec. 7, 1988, 6.9, 25,000.'
' Iran, Sept. 16, 1978, 7.7, 25,000.'
' China, July 28, 1976, 8.2, 200,000 officially, 800,000 unofficially.'
' Guatemala, Feb. 4, 1976, 7.5, 22,778.'
' Peru, May 31, 1970, 7.7, 66,794.'
' Iran, Aug. 31, 1968, 7.4, 12,000.'
' Iran, Sept. 1, 1962, 7.1, 12,230.'
' Morocco, Feb. 29, 1960, 5.8, 12,000.'
' Soviet Turkmenia, Oct. 5, 1948, (no Richter reading available), 110,000 .'
' LA062290-0169'
' 237434'
' June 22, 1990, Friday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 1; Late Final Desk'
' 503 words'
' IRAN ACCEPTS U.S. HELP;'
' EARTHQUAKE DEATH TOLL HITS 35,000'
' From Times Wire Services'
' Iran said today that it would welcome relief offered by its bitter enemy, the United States, to help victims of the earthquake that has killed as many as 35,000 people, the State Department said in Washington .'
' The aid would be accepted through the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian organizations, deputy spokesman Richard Boucher said .'
' "We want to be helpful without regard for our political differences with Iran," he said .'
' There have been only rare instances of U.S.-Iranian cooperation since the two countries broke diplomatic relations a decade ago.'
' The United States holds Iran partly responsible for the continued detention of American hostages by pro-Iranian groups in Lebanon .'
' Boucher said Iran told the U.S. government that private donor agencies should contact the Iranian Red Crescent, a humanitarian group that is the conduit for all outside assistance .'
' The U.S. government routinely channels humanitarian assistance through the Red Cross and other donor groups .'
' Boucher said the Iranian message to the United States presumably was delivered through a third party but added that he was uncertain.'
' Messages between the two countries normally are handled by the Swiss Embassy in Tehran .'
' Iranian authorities have told United Nations officials that about 35,000 people died in the earthquake .'
' Iran reportedly said it would accept aid from all countries  including Iraq  but excluded Israel and South Africa .'
' Rescuers in Iran today freed thousands of people from buildings flattened by the earthquake in northern Iran, which struck early Thursday and had a magnitude between 7.3 and 7.7 .'
' The Islamic Republic News Agency said 6,000 people were pulled from rubble and airlifted from the stricken Gilan and Zanjan provinces to hospitals .'
' Iranian television showed scenes of devastation, including the remains of an entire row of hillside village houses that collapsed and slid down the hill .'
' Rescuers scooped up rubble and used police dogs to find victims.'
' They gently fed water to one man who was trapped in a mass of stones and earth, only his head protruding .'
' The Iranian Red Crescent asked for help in providing shelter for 400,000 people left homeless by the earthquake.'
' Offers of help came from across the globe .'
' The death toll was higher than a quake that killed 25,000 people in nearby Soviet Armenia in December, 1988, and a quake in Iran in 1978 that also killed 25,000 .'
' In scenes shown on television, masked rescuers in white aprons pulled dust-covered bodies from under concrete slabs.'
' Corpses were laid on blocks of ice in open trucks .'
' The state-run television interviewed one middle-aged man from Roodbar, a mountainside village in Gilan province, who said he was sleeping when the temblor struck .'
' "It was so strong," he said.'
' "I was thrown several meters, I ended up by the olive trees," outside his home.'
' "Then a big boulder hit the house.'
' The house collapsed.'
' I lost all four of my children" .'
" * Photos of Iran's devastating earthquake."
' See Back Page'
' Wire'
' LA062390-0001'
' 237494'
' June 23, 1990, Saturday, San Diego County Edition'
' Part A; Page 1; Column 6; Metro Desk'
' 630 words'
' SAN DIEGANS AWAIT WORD ON IRAN RELATIVES'
' By LINDA ROACH MONROE, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' Shortly after 2 p.m. Wednesday, San Diego resident Mohammad Nyakoui got a call from his wife, who is spending the summer in the Caspian Sea coastal city of Rasht, Iran, with her family .'
' "I asked her what she was doing, and she said she was watching the World Cup," Nyakoui recalls .'
" About 15 minutes after she hung up, Rasht and other cities in Iran's northern region were rocked by an earthquake that killed thousands ."
' Back home in San Diego, it was several hours before Nyakoui even heard news of the quake.'
' When he did, some quick time-zone arithmetic showed that he had talked to his wife just minutes before the quake happened .'
' "I was very worried," Nyakoui said.'
' "I tried through the Red Cross to call Iran, but they told us they couldn\'t do anything before 48 hours passed" .'
' One of about 25,000 San Diego Iranians in the same anxious state, Nyakoui was luckier than most: His wife managed to call him a second time that day, about eight hours after the quake, to tell him she and their two children were safe .'
' Phone lines remained jammed Friday, other Iranian-Americans in San Diego said .'
' "There\'s a sense of panic.'
' It\'s just impossible to get through," said Houshang Ghashghai, who teaches political science at San Diego State University .'
' Already though, some of the worried immigrants were turning their fear into action by mobilizing relief efforts for Iran .'
' Hamid Biglari, a theoretical physicist at UC San Diego, was among those who organized a local group to gather contributions for the United Nations Fund for the Iran Earthquake .'
' The group has set up two offices and phone lines.'
' They are collecting medicine, food and a variety of living supplies, including blankets, light clothing and flashlights.'
' The supplies will be transported by the United Nations, Biglari said .'
' Another group gathering medical supplies is Southwest Medical Teams, an organization whose last major international effort was sending volunteers and medical supplies to Armenia after the 1988 quake there .'
" Southwest Medical Teams won't be sending any volunteers this time, said director Barry La Forgia ."
' "That\'s at the advice of the State Department.'
' They couldn\'t ensure our safety over there, and we don\'t want to endanger any of our volunteers," La Forgia said .'
' WHERE TO SEND AID'
' Donations for Iranian earthquake relief are being taken in San Diego by two groups:'
' United Nations Fund for the Iran Earthquake (467-1120 or 456-4000)  Collecting antibiotic and analgesic drugs, collapsible plastic water containers, plastic sheeting, 220-volt portable generators of less than 10 kilowatts, tents, blankets, dry food, light clothing, flashlights and lighting equipment.'
' Bring items or mail checks to 4540 Kearny Villa Road, Suite 214, San Diego 92123; or to 7509 Girard Ave., Suite A, La Jolla 92037.'
' Checks should be made out to the U.N.'
' Fund for the Iran Earthquake .'
' Southwest Medical Teams (284-7979)  Through Thursday, collecting sutures, surgical gloves, antibiotics, analgesics (including aspirin), vitamins, ophthalmic solutions and empty blood collection bags.'
' Shipment will be sent July 2.'
' Cash donations will be used to pay to fly the supplies to Iran.'
' Mail checks to 3547 Camino del Rio South, Suite C, San Diego 92108, noting that donation is for Iranian Earthquake Relief Fund .'
' Other agencies accepting donations for Iranian earthquake victims:'
' Adventist Development and Relief Agency'
' 12501 Old Columbia Pike'
' Silver Spring, Md. 20904'
' (301) 680-6380'
' American Red Cross'
' Iran Earthquake Disaster'
' P.O. Box 37243'
' Washington, D.C. 20013'
' (800) 842-2200'
' Bank Melli Iran'
' Iran Quake Relief Assistance'
' Account No. 5000'
' 628 Madison Ave .'
' New York, N.Y. 10022'
' U.S. Committee for UNICEF'
' 333 E. 38th St .'
' New York, N.Y. 10016'
' (212) 686-5522'
' LA062490-0172'
' 238224'
' June 24, 1990, Sunday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk'
' 467 words'
' SOVIET TRUCKS CARRY QUAKE AID TO IRAN;'
' NEIGHBORS: GORBACHEV SENDS CONDOLENCES, RESCUE CREWS, SUPPLIES.'
' AZERBAIJAN DECLARES DAY OF MOURNING .'
' From Times Wire Services'
' MOSCOW'
' Trucks carried aid into earthquake-stricken Iran on Saturday from Soviet Azerbaijan, which observed a day of mourning for victims, the official Tass news agency said .'
' President Mikhail S. Gorbachev sent his condolences to the Iranian leadership, and the Soviet Red Cross dispatched a plane carrying rescue workers and aid .'
' In his message to Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani, Gorbachev expressed his "deep condolences to the families and friends of those who lost their lives in the earthquake" .'
' A report by Tass from the Azerbaijan capital of Baku said an official day of mourning was declared in the mainly Muslim republic and that black ribbons hung from public buildings in the city .'
' A column of trucks carrying 100 doctors, 10,000 tons of food, clothing and equipment such as welding gear left the town of Nakhicheva near the border .'
' Tass said people in Azerbaijan, many of whom are Shiite Muslims who feel a kinship with people of their faith in Iran, poured money into a public fund for earthquake victims.'
' Other volunteers donated blood, it said .'
' A Soviet Red Cross official said a plane left Moscow carrying relief aid, nine doctors and rescue workers .'
' In December, 1988, a powerful earthquake killed 25,000 people in Soviet Armenia, which borders Azerbaijan .'
' Also on Saturday, aid continued to pour into Iran from other parts of the world .'
" A 205-member French relief team arrived Friday night, according to Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA)."
' West Germany said it was sending 200 tents and 3,200 blankets, to be followed by 100 tons of similar supplies.'
' Jordan and Kuwait also said they are sending planeloads of relief aid .'
' The European Community has granted $1.2 million in emergency aid, and Japan is reportedly sending between $500,000 and $1 million in cash as well as a 22-member medical and rescue squad .'
' The United States on Friday sent $300,000 worth of relief supplies through the American Red Cross and is planning more aid, State Department officials said .'
' Pope John Paul II was "very saddened" by the earthquake and has donated personal funds to help victims of the disaster, the Vatican said .'
' Spokesman Joaquin Navarro did not specify the amount, but in the past the Pope has sent as much as $100,000 for disaster relief from his personal funds .'
' Other assistance reportedly was due from Holland, Turkey, Greece, Pakistan, Belgium, Finland, India, Bangladesh, Yugoslavia, Sri Lanka, Kuwait and several other nations .'
' Iranian officials have said they would welcome aid from all countries except Israel and South Africa .'
' However, Egyptian officials in Cairo said Iran rejected an Egyptian offer to send a planeload of medical supplies.'
' A source at the Foreign Ministry said Iran rejected the supplies, saying it needed heavy equipment .'
' Wire'
' EARTHQUAKES  RELIEF; IRAN  RELIEF; DISASTERS  RELIEF; RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS; DISASTER RELIEF; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; IRAN  FOREIGN RELATIONS  USSR'
' LA062690-0155'
' 239212'
' June 26, 1990, Tuesday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 2; Column 1; Late Final Desk'
' 212 words'
' WORLD;'
" RUSHDIE DONATES QUAKE AID; IRAN SAYS HE'S STILL DOOMED"
' By FROM TIMES WIRE SERVICES'
' LONDON'
" Writer Salman Rushdie, who has been sentenced to die by Iranian zealots, has donated $8,600 to victims of last week's devastating earthquake in Iran."
' Iran said today his death order still stands .'
' Rushdie donated the money to the Independent Iranian Earthquake Appeal, organized by the Independent newspaper to help survivors of the earthquake that Iranian officials said left at least 50,000 people dead .'
' "I wanted to join the Independent and the hostage families and many other people in their appeal for contributions toward the needs of the Iranian earthquake victims," Rushdie said in a message delivered from his hiding place .'
' "It\'s quite clear that at the moment, we should be thinking only of the humanitarian issue, which transcends all other discussion," said Rushdie, 42 .'
' The Indian-born writer has been out of public view since Feb. 14, 1989, when the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini sentenced him to death for writing "The Satanic Verses," a novel many Muslims regard as blasphemous .'
' "The foreign media seems to think that by publishing news of aid from Salman Rushdie to earthquake victims, we will compromise on Rushdie\'s fatwa (edict)," Ayatollah Sadeq Khalkhali, known as the "Hanging Judge," said in Tehran.'
' He indicated they would not .'
' Brief; Wire'
