' AP880508-0070'
' AP-NR-05-08-88 1910EDT'
' r a AM-MandelaDegree 05-08 0374'
' AM-Mandela Degree,0385'
' Wrangle Over Honorary Degree For Nelson Mandela'
' BOSTON (AP)'
' A 3-year campaign that has succeeded in getting Northeastern University to award an honorary degree to jailed South African nationalist leader Nelson Mandela has raised objections from some faculty and students.'
' Northeastern announced plans to award the degree honoring Mandela on May 13, ending a long effort by students seeking to change a university policy barring honorary degrees for anyone who could not be present at the ceremony.'
' The degree is to be accepted by South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who is scheduled to be in Boston for a benefit dinner.'
' Law students last September began a campaign of demonstrations and vigils on the campus.'
" They hung a banner from the second floor of the law library that said: ``Honor Nelson Mandela''."
' Before he was imprisoned, said third-year law student Sarah Ottinger, ``Nelson Mandela was an ...'
' attorney and an activist who worked against apartheid.'
" That's the message we wanted conveyed to students''."
" South Africa's white-minority government says it will free Mandela only if he renounces the use of violence by forces seeking political power for blacks in the country."
" Some faculty members and students, including many blacks, have criticized the administration's plan for the event, saying no effort was made to include them."
" ``I don't even know what office is sponsoring it,'' said Keith Motley, dean and director of the African-American Institute, a student group."
" ``We got a memo from the administration saying they need six ushers, but that's it."
" ``You'd think at least we'd be clued in to what's going on''."
" ``This started out as something noble, something we've tried to have done for three years,'' said Ottinger."
' ``We are very, very sorry it happened this way.'
" It wasn't meant to turn out like this''."
' The trustees decided in January that Mandela should get the honorary degree.'
" Students set up a committee to contact Mandela's family to get their approval."
" University spokesman Paul Jones said letters were sent to Mandela's wife, Winnie, and his two daughters: Zenani, a student at Boston University, and Makaziwe, a student at the University of Massachusetts at Boston."
' However, Northeastern still has not received approval from the Mandela family, The Boston Globe reported .'
' AP881113-0007'
' AP-NR-11-13-88 0112EST'
' u i AM-Mandela 11-13 0235'
' AM-Mandela,0245'
' African National Congress Official Says Mandela May Be Released Tuesday'
' TORONTO (AP)'
' A representative of the African National Congress said Saturday the South African government may release black nationalist leader Nelson Mandela as early as Tuesday.'
" ``There are very strong rumors in South Africa today that on Nov. 15 Nelson Mandela will be released,'' said Yusef Saloojee, chief representative in Canada for the ANC, which is fighting to end white-minority rule in South Africa."
' Mandela the 70-year-old leader of the ANC jailed 27 years ago, was sentenced to life in prison for conspiring to overthrow the South African government.'
' He was transferred from prison to a hospital in August for treatment of tuberculosis.'
' Since then, it has been widely rumored Mandela will be released by Christmas in a move to win strong international support for the South African government.'
" ``It will be a victory for the people of South Africa and indeed a victory for the whole of Africa,'' Saloojee told an audience at the University of Toronto."
" A South African government source last week indicated recent rumors of Mandela's impending release were orchestrated by members of the anti-apartheid movement to pressure the government into taking some action."
" And a prominent anti-apatheid activist in South Africa said there has been ``no indication (Mandela) would be released today or in the near future''."
" Apartheid is South Africa's policy of racial separation ."
' AP890118-0100'
' AP-NR-01-18-89 1050EST'
' r i PM-Mandela 01-18 0243'
' PM-Mandela,0251'
' Imprisoned Colleagues Visited Mandela Before Christmas'
' JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP)'
' Four imprisoned African National Congress leaders, convicted in 1964 with Nelson Mandela, were allowed to visit their ANC colleague at his isolated prison house, an activist said today.'
' The four men, all held at Pollsmoor Prison in Cape Town, were taken to nearby Victor Verster Prison on Dec. 23 and spent about six hours with Mandela, said Dullah Omar, an activist and family friend of the Mandelas.'
' Mandela was moved to the suburban-style home on the prison grounds Dec. 7 after recovering from tuberculosis at a private clinic in Cape Town.'
" Mandela's wife, Winnie, said after visiting her husband last month that he is being held ``practically in solitary confinement'' at the house."
' The four men who visited Mandela are Walter Sisulu, Andrew Mhlangeni, Raymond Mhlaba and Ahmed Kathrada.'
' The men were convicted along with Mandela and three others at the same trial in 1964.'
' All were given life sentences for their activities with the ANC, the main guerrilla group attempting to overthrow the white-led government.'
" ``All of them _ except Sisulu _ had not seen Nelson since 1986, and they were very excited at being able to spend time with him,'' Omar said."
' Of the three co-defendants not at the Dec. 23 gathering, two have been released and one remains at the Robben Island Prison near Cape Town.'
' The Prisons Service declined to confirm or deny the visit .'
' AP890717-0149'
' AP-NR-07-17-89 2000EST'
' r i AM-Mandela 1stLd-Writethru a0672 07-17 0698'
' AM-Mandela, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0672,0714'
" Family Gathering for Prisoner's Birthday"
' Eds: LEADS throughout to UPDATE with comments from wife and daughter, details.'
' No pickup .'
' By SAHM VENTER'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CAPE TOWN, South Africa (AP)'
' The largest family group to visit black leader Nelson Mandela since he was jailed 27 years ago gathered in Cape Town for a meeting Tuesday with the prisoner on his 71st birthday.'
' His wife, Winnie Mandela, arrived Monday night and indicated she did not expect Mandela, leader of the African National Congress, would be freed soon.'
" She said that opinion came from her husband, who she visited last week after Mandela's July 5 meeting with President P.W. Botha."
' That meeting sparked speculation that Mandela would be freed this year.'
' He is serving a life term after being convicted of sabotage and plotting to overthrow the white-dominated government.'
" Mrs. Mandela, referring to her earlier visit with her husband, told reporters: ``He said from that meeting with P.W. Botha we musn't construe as indicating his release."
" ``His release wasn't even there."
" In fact it was not on the agenda at all''."
' Mrs. Mandela, dressed in black as an expression of mourning, spoke with reporters at the D.F. Malan Airport.'
" She said the family normally spent Mandela's birthday at home, fasting and praying, but members would visit him this year on his birthday ``because he has invited us to come and share it with him''."
" The family said 14 relatives, including children from both of Mandela's marriages, would go to Mandela's house at the Victor Verster prison farm in Paarl, north of Cape Town."
" In addition to Mrs. Mandela the group will include three of Mandela's children, one daughter-in-law, eight grandhildren and a great-grandson."
' Mrs. Mandela showed reporters a huge cardboard birthday card in the black, green and yellow colors of the outlawed African National Congress, the largest guerrilla group fighting the government.'
' She said the card was made by members of the National Union of Mineworkers.'
" ``It is very nice but it is also at the same time very sad,'' she said of the planned birthday celebration."
" ``After all, he is not at home''."
' Mandela was allowed to meet last Friday with five other ANC members convicted with him in 1964 of trying to overthrow the government and still imprisoned in Cape Town, according to Dullah Omar, a family friend and attorney.'
' Mandela has been in prison since 1962 when he was sentenced to five years for leaving the country illegally and organizing an illegal strike.'
' He was given a life sentence following the 1964 conviction.'
" Omar said Tuesday's family gathering ``will be an occasion with a strong theme of sadness because after the reunion they will leave Mr. Mandela to resume his lonely life''."
" Mandela's oldest grandson, Mandla, 14, arrived Monday evening from Swaziland where he is a student at a private school."
" Mandla is the son of Makgatho Mandela, the prisoner's eldest son by his first marriage to Evelyn Ntoko Mase, who lives in the black township of Soweto and was not expected to join the reunion."
" Makgatho Mandela came to Cape Town with his wife, Zondi, his daughter Indaba and 4-year-old Thembela, Mandela's great-grandson."
' Thembela is the grandson of Tembikile Mandela.'
" Tembikile, Mandela's son by his marriage to Evelyn Ntoko Mase, died in an automobile accident in 1970."
' Evelyn Ntoko Mase, the cousin of ANC leader Walter Sisulu who has been imprisoned with Mandela, married Nelson Mandela in 1944.'
' They had four children.'
' One of their daughters, Makaziwe Mandela-Amuah, arrived with her three children from the United States, where she is studying for a doctoral degree in anthropology at Amherst College in Massachusetts.'
' She said, ``He (Nelson Mandela) believes that education is the key to all doors and he would like to see all of his children get an education; in fact all of the black children ...'
" because you cannot claim to want to rule the country and be the leaders of the future if you have people who are untrained and don't have any skills''."
" Mrs. Mandela-Amuah said of her father's possible release, ``I always firmly believe that you can't predict what the South African government will do.''"
' AP900609-0040'
' AP-NR-06-09-90 0733EST'
' r a PM-MandelaVisit 06-09 0263'
' PM-Mandela Visit,0271'
' NYC Mayor Warns Jewish Groups Not To Protest Visit'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
' Mayor David Dinkins warned Jewish groups against protesting the visit of anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela to New York City, saying the protests might insult the black community, a newspaper said today.'
" The mayor also asked members of the ``organized Jewish community'' to dissuade more radical groups from disrupting the visit, the Daily News said."
' Mandela, leader of the African National Congress, will visit eight cities from June 20 to July 1.'
" ``There is a danger of many people who hold Nelson Mandela in very, very high esteem taking great umbrage'' at any public protest, Dinkins said."
" ``I think it's sad and unfortunate and tactically very, very unwise, because this man is an international symbol of freedom and especially so seen by persons of color,'' Dinkins told the newspaper in an interview."
' Leaders of several Jewish-American organizations plan to meet Mandela on Sunday in Geneva.'
' The organizations want the South African leader to clarify his position on Israel.'
' Mandela has embraced Yasser Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization, in public and has compared the struggle of Palestinians to that of black South Africans.'
" Rabbi Abraham Weiss of the Hebrew Institute announced his Coalition of Concern will hold a protest at Mandela's public welcome in New York because of the anti-apartheid leader's ``unbending anti-Israel stance''."
' City councilman Noach Dear and state assemblyman Dov Hikind said if Mandela does not make a strong statement in support of Israel, they would take out ads in newspapers and hold demonstrations .'
' AP900620-0133'
' AP-NR-06-20-90 2157EDT'
' r a AM-Mandela-Officials 06-20 0276'
' AM-Mandela-Officials,0286'
' Mandela Arrival Brings Praise, Encouragement'
' With AM-Mandela, Bjt'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
' The arrival Wednesday of African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela prompted an outpouring of praise and encouragement from politicians and supporters.'
' A sampling of their comments:'
' The Rev. Jesse Jackson: ``The presence of Nelson Mandela generates hope around the world.'
' He emerged from the prison unbroken, unbowed and without bitterness, and he continues to struggle for human rights.'
" Just as the walls came down in Berlin, they should come down in South Africa as well.''"
' Mayor David Dinkins: ``Our honored guest ...'
' is a George Washington, a Bolivar, a King, a Herzl.'
' He is like a modern-day Moses leading the people of South Africa from enslavement at the hands of the pharaohs.'
' He and his people have endured their walk through the desert of deprivation.'
' And now, his path is clear.'
' He will not be deterred.'
" He and his people have suffered their way into the leadership of South Africa.''"
' Former tennis star Arthur Ashe: ``For me, one of my fondest dreams and hopes is to see Nelson Mandela free.'
" I never thought I'd see the day."
' I feel humbled by being part of his welcome to our country.'
" He will do more good here than he will ever, ever know.''"
' New York Gov. Mario Cuomo: ``Today we are celebrating Nelson Mandela and honoring his commitment to mankind.'
" This government ought to continue to support the needs of South Africa with its speeches, its prayers and its money.''"
" New Jersey Gov. Jim Florio: ``Today is a restatement of our commitment that all people are created equal.''"
' AP901006-0037'
' AP-NY-10-06-90 0721EDT'
' r i PM-SAfrica-Mandela 2ndLd-Writethru a0452 10-06 0384'
' PM-SAfrica-Mandela, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0452,0452'
' Baby Killed in Attack on Home of Relatives of Mandela'
' Eds: LEADS thruout with details on attack, background; no pickup .'
' By TOM COHEN'
' Associated Press Writer'
' JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP)'
' Unidentified assailants hurled a grenade and fired shots today at the home of relatives of Nelson Mandela, killing a baby girl and injuring her parents, police said.'
' African National Congress officials said the dead child and her parents were distant cousins of Nelson Mandela.'
" They denied South African police and press reports that the child was Mandela's great-granddaughter."
' Police said they did not know who was responsible for the attack.'
' No group took immediate responsibility.'
' Police Lt. Govindesamy Mariemuthoo said the attack occurred before dawn at the home of Monde Mandela in the black township of Soweto.'
' The blast badly damaged part of the house, knocking holes in the wall and causing extensive damage.'
' The police officer said a baby girl was killed and her parents injured.'
' He gave no other detail on the victims.'
' He said the room in which the injured couple had been sleeping was destroyed.'
" ANC officials said the dead child was the great niece of Mandela's father, making her a distant cousin of Nelson Mandela."
" The dead girl's father, Monde Mandela, runs a small grocery shop."
' The ANC officials said Nelson Mandela was close to the Monde Mandela family.'
" An ANC statement said, ``The ANC notes the curious coincidence of an attack on a man bearing the Mandela name at this time''."
' Given the distant connection between Mandela and the family, police said they did not know if the attack was deliberate or just a random attack linked to the general violence.'
' Mandela was reportedly attending a political meeting in the eastern province of Natal today.'
' Soweto and other black townships around Johannesburg have been hit by black factional fighting that has killed about 800 people since August.'
' The fighting has pitted followers of the ANC against Zulus of the conservative Inkatha group.'
' Mandela has repeatedly accused security forces of manipulating the violence to derail government efforts to end apartheid and share power with the black majority.'
" The police have denied Mandela's charges."
' Mandela was released in February after 27 years in jail for opposing the white minority government.'
' He is closely guarded by ANC operatives, and there have been reports of threats on his life in recent months.'
' Mandela and other ANC leaders have been negotiating with President F.W. de Klerk to pave the way for full-scale talks on ending apartheid, the South African system of racial separation.'
' De Klerk has promised to end white-minority rule .'
' LA021190-0179'
' 175002'
' February 11, 1990, Sunday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk'
' 602 words'
' WORLD LEADERS REJOICE AT MANDELA NEWS'
' From Associated Press'
' LONDON'
" World leaders welcomed South Africa's announcement Saturday of Nelson R."
" Mandela's impending release from prison, and international rejoicing began to build for an event so long awaited by so many ."
' Britain said it is time to resume contacts with internationally isolated South Africa, but anti-apartheid campaigners warned against any reduction of pressure on the white-led government .'
' President Bush praised South African President Frederik W. de Klerk for "bold and imaginative leadership," and the Canadian government expressed delight at the announcement that Mandela would be released today .'
" In Lusaka, Zambian President Kenneth D. Kaunda, whose country has been a refuge for the exiled leadership of Mandela's African National Congress, said his first reaction was to kneel down and thank God ."
' "Really, we must believe in the leadership of the people of South Africa to put their heads together and build on these developments," Kaunda said .'
' Hours after the announcement of Mandela\'s release date, the ANC\'s leadership announced from its headquarters in Lusaka, Zambia: "We welcome Nelson Mandela back from all those years of imprisonment into our midst with great joy" .'
' "Ireland rejoices that Nelson Mandela is free at last," said Charles Haughey, Irish prime minister and current president of the European Community, which has been using economic sanctions to pressure Pretoria to give up apartheid .'
' "By his indomitable courage he has demonstrated once again that the human spirit can never be vanquished," Haughey said .'
' Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, current chairman of the Organization of African Unity, sent Mandela a message of congratulation, praising the "sacrifices of the great people of South Africa" and assuring him of Egyptian solidarity with his cause .'
' In the Soviet Union, Moscow Radio broadcast news of the announcement, then added: "Nelson Mandela has become the world\'s most famous political prisoner, put in jail for the struggle against apartheid in South Africa" .'
" Amsterdam's central Leidseplein square was temporarily rechristened Nelson Mandela Square ."
' In London, a jubilant crowd of about 120, some waving pictures of Mandela, celebrated in the pouring rain outside South Africa House in Trafalgar Square .'
' In a statement released by her 10 Downing St. office, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said, "We believe that the steps President de Klerk has taken merit a positive, practical response" .'
' "We believe it no longer makes sense to discourage new investment in South Africa  a restraint which in our case in any event has been voluntary  and we shall be discussing this with our EC partners," she said .'
' In 1986, the European Community banned imports of South African iron, steel and Kruggerand gold coins, and barred new investment in the country.'
' It had already frozen scientific and cultural relations .'
' Britain regards the iron, steel and coin embargoes as mandatory, but not the investment ban, and has already announced that it is no longer observing the scientific and cultural embargo .'
' In London, Bob Hughes, chairman of the Anti-Apartheid Movement, said he was delighted at the news, which he called "a tremendous victory for the people of South Africa and for the international sanctions campaign" .'
" Commonwealth Secretary General Shridath Ramphal said Mandela's safety must be guaranteed by the South African government and that until change there becomes irreversible, the Commonwealth will sustain its pressure for the end of apartheid."
' "It is not yet time to demobilize the international support for apartheid\'s victims," he said .'
' Wire'
' GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS; LEADERSHIP; CELEBRATIONS; ENGLAND  FOREIGN RELATIONS  SOUTH AFRICA; EGYPT  FOREIGN RELATIONS  SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA  FOREIGN RELATIONS  USSR; SOUTH AFRICA  FOREIGN RELATIONS  ZAMBIA; MANDELA, NELSON R; POLITICAL PRISONERS  SOUTH AFRICA; PRISONER RELEASES; APARTHEID; RACIAL RELATIONS  SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA  GOVERNMENT; AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS'
' LA021190-0181'
' 175004'
' February 11, 1990, Sunday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 14; Column 5; Foreign Desk'
' 450 words'
" ONE MAN'S STRUGGLE"
' From behind bars, Nelson Mandela has dominated the fight for black rights in South Africa.'
' The following are some of the key events in his life .'
' 1944'
" Mandela joins the African National Congress at age 26, later becoming president of the group's Youth League."
' In a short time, the ANC becomes the force behind black protests.'
" When the National Party comes to power in 1948, the ANC begins planning a campaign of civil disobedience to fight the party's apartheid policy ."
' June, 1952'
' Mandela is named leader of the campaign and breaks curfew as the first act of defiance.'
' In December, he is arrested and charged under Suppression of Communism Act.'
' He gets a suspended sentence and is barred from attending meetings or leaving Johannesburg .'
' December, 1956'
' A campaign of civil disobedience by the ANC results in Mandela being detained along with 155 others and charged with treason.'
' The trial, which lasts until 1961, ends in acquittal .'
' March, 1960'
' Sixty-nine black protesters are killed by police in Sharpeville; a state of emergency is declared and the ANC is outlawed .'
' January, 1962'
' Attends Pan-African Freedom Movement Conference in Ethiopia; travels to London to meet with leftists.'
' In August he is charged with incitement and leaving the country illegally; gets five-year jail term .'
' July, 1963'
' With Mandela in jail, police raid ANC offices, seizing documents outlining guerrilla campaign.'
' Mandela, seven others are charged with sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the government .'
' April-June, 1964'
' Mandela and seven others are sentenced to life in prison .'
' May, 1984'
' Mandela is allowed a visit with his wife  the first since 1962 .'
' January, 1985'
' President Pieter W. Botha offers to free Mandela if he renounces violence; Mandela refuses until the government takes steps to dismantle apartheid and grants full political rights to blacks .'
' July, 1988'
' Mandela turns 70.'
' A rock concert in London is held in his honor.'
' But South Africa bans all local celebrations .'
' August, 1988'
' Mandela contracts tuberculosis and is transferred to a hospital.'
' Three months later he is taken to a prison farm in Paarl and placed in a house usually reserved for prison employees .'
' July, 1989'
' Mandela meets with outgoing president Botha at the presidential mansion.'
' One week later, Mandela is allowed to make his first officially sanctioned public statement since his conviction.'
' His statement makes clear his position has not changed in 28 years .'
' December, 1989'
' President Frederik W. de Klerk meets Mandela for the first time .'
' February, 1990'
' De Klerk lifts ANC ban and says Mandela will be released.'
" On Feb. 11, the nation's best-known black leader becomes a free man at last ."
' Photo, Mandela in 1958.'
' Photo, A pro-Mandela protest earlier this month .'
' Sidebar; Chronology'
' MANDELA, NELSON R; POLITICAL PRISONERS  SOUTH AFRICA; PRISONER RELEASES; APARTHEID; BLACKS  SOUTH AFRICA; RACIAL RELATIONS  SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA  GOVERNMENT; GOVERNMENT REFORM; AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS; DE KLERK, FREDERIK W'
' SJMN91-06145218'
' 06145218'
' Photo; PHOTO: Mandela'
' SOUTH-AFRICA; WEAPON; BAN; OPINION'
' THE PHOTOGRAPHER caught Winnie Mandela as she left the court after her conviction for kidnapping.'
' She was smiling exuberantly, as if she had just won a great victory.'
' Behind her was Nelson Mandela, eyes downcast, looking stricken and exhausted.'
' That remarkable, terrible picture spoke volumes about the drama of South Africa today, the human factors and the politics.'
' Most of all, it reminded us of the unimaginable burdens borne by one 72-year-old man .'
' Editorial'
" S. AFRICA'S NEXT STEP: BAN WEAPONS, NEGOTIATE"
' Commentary Anthony Lewis is a New York Times columnist .'
' In the 15 months since he walked free from prison, Nelson Mandela has played the chief role in talks with President F.W. de Klerk and the white government.'
' He has presided over an African National Congress divided and not yet organized for politics.'
' He has spent his moral capital trying, unsuccessfully, to end the murderous conflict between black political factions.'
" Now Mandela is confronted with his wife's conviction for a brutal criminal offense."
' He has loyally defended her innocence.'
' He has seemed to hear no voice to the contrary.'
' But events have caught up.'
" The radicals in the ANC may well use the trial and conviction of Mrs. Mandela to arouse members against Nelson Mandela's policy of peace and negotiation."
' There are rumors that at a national conference next month the radicals will try to move such older leaders as Mandela and Walter Sisulu aside to a nominal senior role.'
' It is a gloomy picture: an elderly man bearing the hopes of peace in South Africa beset by problems, personal trauma on top of political.'
' But I think it would be wrong to conclude that the South African drama is necessarily heading toward a tragic end.'
" One reason for a degree of optimism is the way South Africans on all sides, most of them, have dealt with Winnie Mandela's trial: calmly and fairly."
' During the years of white supremacy the law has been viciously misused.'
' But from all one can tell, this trial was handled professionally by the judge, Justice Michael Stegmann.'
' The reaction to the verdict and six-year prison sentence was also mild.'
' Surprisingly few supporters gathered outside the court to cheer Mrs. Mandela.'
' The ANC issued a detached statement saying that the last word had not been spoken in the case.'
' Archbishop Desmond Tutu said "the movement is larger than any individual."; A more fundamental reason for hope is that F.W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela  and those for whom they speak  have a common interest in creating a new, non-racial South Africa.'
' They need each other.'
' Without their agreement, there can be no solution, no outcome that leaves a viable country.'
' The next step is formal negotiations.'
' They can come only when the government takes further steps to meet the reasonable ANC demand for action against violence  in particular, a ban on the carrying of so-called "cultural" weapons such as spears.'
' How can the government look away when 1,000 Zulus carrying spears and machetes slaughter township residents?'
' The time factor is crucial now.'
' Negotiations must start soon if the moderate center of the public, black and white, is to retain hope for a peaceful solution.'
' World and time press on Nelson Mandela .'
' ANTHONY LEWIS'
' USA'
' Morning Final'
' SJ'
' San Jose Mercury News'
' 910524'
' Friday'
' May'
' 7B'
' 1991'
' WEST'
' PHOTO'
' CA'
' 534'
' Friday May 24, 1991 00145218,SJ1'
' Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News'
' 1'
' ENG'
