' AP880711-0056'
' AP-NR-07-11-88 0957EDT'
' r i PM-WorldFood 07-11 0314'
' PM-World Food,0322'
' U.N. Agency Projects Food Shortages Due To U.S. Drought'
' ROME (AP)'
' The crippling drought hitting North America is expected to reduce world grain stocks to levels that may cause food shortages in many poor countries, the U.N.'
' Food and Agriculture Organization reported today.'
" The agency projects world cereal production in 1988 to total 1.785 billion tons, only two million tons more than last year's level, which was already below the expected production."
" If the drought in the United States ended now, grain production would fall close to the low levels of 1983, when a drought and farmers' participation in a government crop reduction program decreased output, the agency reported."
' As a result, world grain stocks are projected to fall below 310 million tons, or 17 percent of the level the agency considers necessary to safeguard world food security, the report said.'
' If crop conditions in the United States and Canada continue to deteriorate, the ratio could drop even further.'
" ``Such a development would have serious implications for the food security, particularly of many low-income, food-deficit countries,'' the report said."
' The high grain prices resulting from a lower supply would hit poor, food-importing countries the hardest, the U.N. agency warned.'
' It said the rising prices could also reduce food aid from developed countries.'
' The most severely hit crops are coarse grains _ mostly maize, barley and oats, the report said.'
' The agency projected good harvests in other parts of the world.'
' In Asia the yearly monsoon rains started on time, and production in Europe and the Soviet is expected to be larger than last year.'
' Grain production in South America should be slightly lower this year than last.'
" In the Sahel region of sub-Saharan Africa, however, locusts flourishing in unexpectedly heavy rains have damaged this year's harvest."
' Potential crop losses from the pests could hit 1 million tons, FAO said .'
' AP880711-0221'
' AP-NR-07-11-88 1633EDT'
' r f AM-Drought-Lyng 07-11 0286'
' AM-Drought-Lyng,0297'
' Lyng Says Drought Could Prompt Relaxed Crop Acreage Controls Next Year'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
' The drought may force the government to ease crop acreage controls next year to help the United States rebuild its grain inventories, Agriculture Secretary Richard E. Lyng said Monday.'
" But the United States ``will continue to be a major player'' in world agriculture and in 1989 ``should be able to bounce back'' from this year's drought losses, he said."
" Lyng's remarks were prepared for delivery at a meeting of farm magazine, extension, advertising, co-op and broadcast editors."
' A larger portion of the United States suffered from some degree of drought stress in May and June than at any point since records began in 1895, he said.'
" Moreover, on July 2, about 35 percent of the contiguous United States was in the ``severe to extreme'' drought category, he said."
' In 1934, more than 60 percent was so rated, and in August 1954 more than 50 percent was in that category.'
" ``Because of the large early season area now experiencing drought in the U.S., 1988 appears to have the potential to approach or exceed the drought-affected areas of the 1930s and 1950s,'' Lyng said."
" Even with the severe drought, there will be an adequate supply of food grains and livestock feed grains so that the United States ``will be able to take care of our domestic needs and our export demand,'' he said."
' Lyng said total consumption of 1988 crops will probably be somewhat less than previously estimated because prices are much higher.'
" ``But it is important to note that we will have no shortages, that we will still be able to accommodate the needs of our overseas buyers,'' he said ."
' AP880712-0250'
' AP-NR-07-12-88 0025EDT'
' r f PM-BusinessHighlights 1stAdd 07-12 0537'
' PM-Business Highlights, 1st Add,0567'
' By The Associated Press'
" Kentucky's governor has criticized the federal government for being too slow in dealing with the drought, and Iowa's governor warns that farmers in his state still face potential disaster despite up to five inches of rain over the weekend."
' Crews began installing pumps on barges Monday to haul fresh water to southern Louisiana towns plagued by rising salt levels in the lower Mississippi River.'
' Meanwhile, House Speaker Jim Wright said in Washington he hopes that a relief package with disaster payments of up to $100,000 for drought-stricken farmers will win committee approval and be ready for floor action in Congress this week .'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
' The drought may force the government to ease crop acreage controls next year to help the United States rebuild its grain inventories, says Agriculture Secretary Richard E. Lyng.'
" But the United States will continue to be a major player in world agriculture and in 1989 should be able to bounce back from this year's drought losses, he said Monday."
' A larger portion of the United States suffered from some degree of drought stress in May and June than at any point since records began in 1895, Lyng said .'
' CHICAGO (AP)'
' Grain and soybean futures have dropped to their lowest levels in more than five weeks as weekend rains in the Midwest prompted a third straight day of plummeting prices on the Chicago Board of Trade.'
' July soybeans fell 66 cents a bushel Monday to $8.58, the lowest price for that contract since June 3.'
' Corn for July delivery dropped 20 cents to $2.89 a bushel, the lowest level since June 15.'
' Wheat and oat futures also closed lower .'
' NEW YORK (AP)'
" Crude oil futures prices have hit their lowest closing level since late 1986, hurt by a selloff that traders blame on too much supply and renewed skepticism about OPEC's ability to restrain production."
" Monday's decline erased gains made last week that had been based on fears of supply disruptions caused by the oil platform explosion in the North Sea."
' On the New York Mercantile Exchange, an important barometer of price trends, the August-delivery price for West Texas Intermediate crude settled at $14.78 per barrel, down from $15.46 late Friday.'
' It was the lowest closing price for the near-month crude contract since a $14.71 close on Nov. 3, 1986 .'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
" Savings institution depositors withdrew more money from their accounts than they deposited in May for the first time in seven months, while losses continued to erode the ailing industry's capital, the government reports."
" The Federal Home Loan Bank Board said Monday net withdrawals at the nation's 3,102 federally insured S&Ls totaled $941 million in May."
' But the decline came after seven consecutive months of net deposit gains totaling $28 billion .'
' By The Associated Press'
' Stock prices crept higher Monday in quiet trading.'
' The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 5.16 points to 2,111.31.'
' The dollar limbed to recent highs against several major currencies.'
' Gold prices fell sharply.'
' Bond prices rose modestly in quiet trading following a week of steady decline.'
' Grain and soybean futures plunged, while wheat and oat futures also declined .'
' AP880713-0121'
' AP-NR-07-13-88 1353EDT'
' u a PM-DroughtRdp 4thLd-Writethru a0658 07-13 0694'
' PM-Drought Rdp, 4th Ld - Writethru, a0658,0706'
' Deluge in Some Drought Areas'
' Eds: LEADS with 4 grafs to update with arrival of hay.'
" Picks up 5th graf pvs, `The Agriculture ...'."
" SUBS grafs 14 through 16, `The first...', to update with arrival and plans for distribution."
" Picks up 17th graf pvs, `The delay...'."
' ^With PM-Drought-Congress, Bjt'
' By JONATHAN OATIS'
' Associated Press Writer'
" Heavy rain deluged some drought-hit areas as Congress began working on a package of relief for America's farmers, and farmers in Kentucky today greeted the arrival of the first shipment of hay airlifted free from Oregon."
" ``Everything looks so good with a bit of rain over the past 24 hours,'' farmer Herman Krone said Tuesday at his 2,800-acre farm in southern Illinois, which President Reagan plans to visit Thursday during a tour of the drought-stricken area."
' However, Krone said, almost one-third of his 1,200 acres of corn already have been lost.'
" Marth Wilkinson, wife of Kentucky Gov. Wallace Wilkinson and business manager of the family's farm, was at Louisville's Standiford Field today for the arrival of the first hay shipment from Portland, Ore."
' United Parcel Service plans to ship free of charge 20 to 30 tons of hay from Portland to Louisville each day for the next two weeks.'
' The Agriculture Department, meanwhile, issued a report predicting severe damage to the harvest from the drought.'
' It estimated, for example, that corn output this year would shrivel to 5.2 billion bushels, down from 7.06 billion last year.'
" The dry weather is ``the largest drought that our nation has ever experienced,'' Agriculture Secretary Richard E. Lyng told legislators."
" ``I think history will show that it's truly more mammoth than any of us has ever experienced''."
' Extremely heavy rain fell Tuesday in sections of Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Arkansas.'
' In Texas, more than 6 inches fell in 75 minutes in Mesquite, washing a pickup truck and several cars into a creek and leaving some homes 8 inches deep in water.'
' Water was up to the tops of cars in Garland and street flooding was reported in Heath.'
' Nearly 6 inches fell in DeQueen, Ark.'
' Showers and thunderstorms were widespread over the Middle Atlantic States, the Tennessee Valley and the Gulf Coast states.'
' Thunderstorms boomed today over the Dakotas and Minnesota.'
' In Washington, the House and Senate Agriculture committees began working on wide-ranging legislation that would provide payments of up to $100,000 each to farmers whose crops have been wiped out by the dry spell.'
' House Agriculture Committee Chairman E.'
" ``Kika'' de la Garza, D-Texas, called for final action on the measure by mid-August."
' The drought has dried up pastures, forcing livestock farmers to go far afield for hay.'
' The hay that arrived in Kentuky today will be stored at a fairgrounds, and distributed next week by lottery to farmers, who will pay for the hay, officials said.'
" ``It seems like everyone in the state wants this hay,'' state Department of Agriculture spokesman Roger Nesbitt said Tuesday."
' The delay has angered some farmers, such as Bernetta Smith, who expects to run out of hay for her 147 beef cows in one to two days.'
" ``I don't see any sense in storing it because people need this hay."
" I don't understand it,'' she said."
' At least 50 truckloads of hay gathered from the Carolinas and Virginia are being shipped to Ohio on Thursday in a drive organized by the Charlotte Motor Speedway and the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing.'
' Despite the recent rain, communities with dried-up water supplies continue to restrict water use.'
' Until the drought ends, the 650 residents of Vintondale, Pa., about 50 miles east of Pittsburgh, will have to do without running water from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. every day, Mayor Michael Palovich said Tuesday.'
' Palovich said he was trying to arrange for an emergency supply to be trucked in.'
' The drought has had a silver lining for anglers in the Reno, Nevada, area.'
' The state Board of Wildlife Commissioners removed the limit on catches at Rye Patch and Lahontan reservoirs because the reservoirs are expected to be dry by the end of summer, leaving fish high and dry .'
' AP880713-0175'
' AP-NR-07-13-88 2035EDT'
' r a AM-Drought-States 07-13 1050'
' AM-Drought-States,1131'
' State-By-State Survey of Drought Developments'
' By The Associated Press'
' Here is a state-by-state summary of drought developments Wednesday:'
' ALABAMA'
' The Alabama National Guard is still hauling up to 25,000 gallons of water a day to 10 communities across the state despite recent rains.'
' At the height of the drought last month, the Guard was hauling water to 12 locations.'
" The Guard's water-hauling program has been in continuous operation since last July in west-central Alabama because of a low water table ."
' GEORGIA'
' In an effort to help Georgia farmers locate hay, the state Department of Agriculture announced it will start compiling a list of sources.'
' Commissioner Tommy Irvin urged those with a surplus for sale to contact the department.'
' He said information will be compiled and updated regularly .'
' ILLINOIS'
' State Treasurer Jerry Cosentino announced a program to provide drought-stricken farmers with access to commercial loans with below-market interest rates.'
" The treasurer's office will commit $50 million to banks at a lower-than-normal interest yield and in turn those banks will offer farmers loans with rates as low as 10 percent."
" ``I know what the farmers first need is rain but that is out of our hands right now,'' Cosentino said."
' ``The next best thing they can get ...'
" would be additional funds to carry them over until next year.''"
' INDIANA'
' A group of Indiana farmers sued a New Jersey insurance company, saying the company acted in bad faith when it reneged on $2.5 million in drought insurance.'
" The lawsuit seeks an ``undeterminable'' amount of damages from Pio-Gard Agency of Ohio Inc. and Federal Insurance Co., a subsidiary of the Chubb Group Insurance Cos. of Warren, N.J ."
' IOWA'
" Forecasters say Iowa's weather is returning to the hot, dry drought pattern which settled over the state for much of June ."
' KENTUCKY'
' The first emergency shipment of Oregon hay to help drought-stricken Kentucky farmers arrived, but logistical problems forced agriculture officials to delay its distribution until next week.'
" ``It's a nightmare trying to find a fair way to do this,'' said Roger Nesbitt, a spokesman for the Kentucky Department of Agriculture."
" Nesbitt said Wednesday's 20-ton shipment, flown free from Portland, Ore., by United Parcel Service, will be sold to farmers on Monday ."
' MINNESOTA'
" Heavy rain fell on some of the driest areas of central and east-central Minnesota, but it was ``way, way below what we should have, as far as precipitation goes,'' a National Weather Service hydrologist said."
' ``We need ...'
" a widespread distribution over a long period of time, say maybe 10 inches of rainfall to get us back to what we normally should be,'' Gary McDevitt said."
' It was the heaviest rainfall for the east-central part of the state since April 26, when the area got about a half-inch of rain .'
' MISSISSIPPI'
' Weather experts say Mississippi could see above normal rainfall in the coming week.'
' Rainfall during the week ending Wednesday averaged 1 inch in some areas, with some extreme northern counties receiving greater amounts.'
' But the weather service said all Mississippi farm communities still had only 30 percent to 50 percent of normal moisture .'
' MISSOURI'
' Road builders in the Kansas City area say the effects of dry weather in the Midwest this year are not all bad.'
' Engineers say several highway projects in the area will be open to traffic at least a month earlier than expected because of fewer interruptions caused by rain and wet weather. __'
' MONTANA'
' As many as 20 fires, sparked by lightning from thunderstorms, have blackened about 1,500 acres in the Custer National Forest.'
' The fires are being fought by from 150 to 200 firefighters.'
' A lightning-caused fire in the Bob Marshall Wilderness Area of northwest Montana was being allowed to burn naturally, officials said .'
' NEBRASKA'
' State Agriculture Director Roy Frederick said Nebraska farmers probably will have better crops than are expected nationwide and may benefit from higher prices.'
" Nebraska's outlook for the corn crop is rosier than national predictions because 75 percent of the corn comes from irrigated acres and Nebraska has received more rain than some other states, he said ."
' NORTH DAKOTA'
' Gov. George Sinner has asked federal officials to declare all 53 North Dakota counties disaster areas because of the drought.'
' Sinner says the drought has wiped out small grain crops and is beginning to take a toll on row crops.'
' The State Agricultural Statistics Service said North Dakota farmers will abandon 31 percent of their spring wheat this year and harvest the smallest crop in 19 years because of the drought.'
' That compares to a normal abandonment of about 5 percent.'
' Abandonment has not been so high in the state since the 1930s .'
' OHIO'
' Lt.'
' Gov. Paul Leonard, who heads a state drought task force, said he would not advocate statewide mandatory water restrictions but said local governments should have the authority to impose restrictions where necessary.'
' In central Ohio, farmers awaited what will be the largest haylift of the season _ 50 truckloads of hay from the South scheduled to arrive Thursday night in Columbus .'
' SOUTH DAKOTA'
' Thunderstorms hit Brown County with heavy rain and hail that damaged drought-stricken crops.'
' Rain was heavy north and east of Aberdeen and spotty elsewhere.'
' Stanley and Thelma Dennert, who live three miles west of Houghton, reported 3.75 inches of rain within an hour.'
' ``It was hard with a little bit of hail.'
" It really came down in sheets,'' said Mrs. Dennert."
' Authorities said no tornado sightings were confirmed, but about a dozen funnel clouds were reported .'
' TENNESSEE'
' The drought-plagued Mississippi River measured seventh-tenths of a foot higher than expected at Memphis because of rainfall throughout West Tennessee.'
' The Mississippi was still 21 feet lower than normal for this time of year, however, and the Coast Guard said the slight rise had no effect on commercial traffic on the river .'
' WISCONSIN'
' The drought has dried up summer jobs at the Stokley USA cannery in Merrill.'
" During most summers, the plant provides three months' employment for about 300 workers on three shifts, but this year there are only 225 seasonal employees on two shifts, said Vern Warren, plant manager."
" ``It's been on and off so far."
" The drought conditions have made it a little difficult for us,'' Warren said ."
' AP880714-0085'
' AP-NR-07-14-88 1057EDT'
' r w PM-WeatherForecast 1stLd-Writethru a0469 07-14 0519'
' PM-Weather Forecast, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0469,530'
' Most of U.S.'
' To Be Hot, Dry Until Mid-August, Weather Service Says'
' Eds: Top 5 grafs new to include climate assessment, picks up 3rd graf pvs, That area.'
' Adds 2 grafs at end .'
' WASHINGTON (AP)'
' Weather forecasters today were offering drought-stricken farmers little prospect of relief in separate outlooks for the next 30 days and three months.'
" A new climate assessment of the ongoing drought said ``many areas now experiencing extreme drought have less than a 4 percent chance of recovering from the drought within 3 months''."
' The disappointing forecast came as President Reagan headed to the Midwest to inspect drought-plagued farms.'
' On Tuesday the Agriculture Department reported sharp declines in the outlook for several crops.'
' That was followed Wednesday by a 30-day forecast from the National Weather Service saying that drought-stricken areas from the Dakotas east to New York and from the Canadian border to Oklahoma, Arkansas and Tennessee are likely to continue to be short of rain.'
' That area, which includes the major grain-growing states where crops already are suffering, is given a 55 percent chance of less than normal rainfall.'
' And some states in the center of the area, stretching from West Virginia to Nebraska and from Wisconsin to Missouri, may be even drier.'
' They are given a 60 percent chance of being short of precipitation.'
' A slice of southern California, including Los Angeles, is the driest area in the forecast, with a 70 percent chance of having below normal rainfall.'
' The rest of coastal California also will be dry, the forecast said.'
" The outlook also says there's a 55 percent chance of hotter than normal temperatures through the U.S. heartland from New England to Idaho and from the Canadian border to Oklahoma."
' Within that area, the chances of high temperatures are above 65 percent in Wyoming, while central Midwestern states have a 60 percent chance of above average temperatures.'
' Wetter than normal weather is predicted for west and south Texas, and parts of New Mexico, Arizona and Utah.'
' Normal precipitation is forecast for the Atlantic and Gulf coast states, along with the Northwest and northern Mountain States.'
' The Weather Service said normal temperatures are expected for the Atlantic states from Virginia south, and for the Gulf Coast states.'
' West Texas and New Mexico may be cooler than normal, but the far West is expected to see its normal quota of summer heat.'
" The separate drought impact assessment, issued by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Climate Office, points out that predicting an end to the drought is a complex thing, since dry spells have no normal lifetime."
' The low 4 percent probability of an end within 3 months is based simply on a statistical analysis of past droughts, the agency said.'
' The report noted that as of the end of June, 29 percent of the continental United States was experiencing severe or extreme drought, with parts of 35 states affected.'
' That puts the current drought on the same level as the one in 1911, but still less severe than the droughts of 1936, 1931, 1956 and 1934 .'
' AP880714-0156'
' AP-NR-07-14-88 2104EDT'
' r a AM-DroughtSymposium 07-14 0283'
' AM-Drought Symposium,0290'
' Expert Suggests Planets Affect Drought'
' With AM-Drought-Northeast Bjt'
' By JOHN A. BOLT'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SMYRNA, Ga. (AP)'
' Weather experts discussed the drought Thursday and its possible causes and effects, and said they hoped to produce a consensus on how much longer it will last.'
' All of the speakers at the 1988 Drought Symposium called for more research and study.'
" ``There's an enormous number of possibilities that one could chase."
' The next business of the scientist is to eliminate the possibilities of ...'
" and extend the range of analysis and look for cause and effect,'' said David Rodenhuis, director of the federal Climate Analysis Center in Washington."
' The symposium attended by 13 state and national experts was sponsored by The Weather Channel, an Atlanta-based cable network, which broadcast the meeting live.'
" John Hope, the network's hurricane specialist and a former forecaster with the National Hurricane Center in Miami, Fla., said the drought in the Southeast might be lessened or ended in the next few months by a heavier than normal hurricane season."
' Hope said current weather conditions point to more tropical storms, more of which should become hurricanes, in this hurricane season.'
" He stressed that a hurricane's effect on drought is variable, depending on the intensity and speed of the storm."
' Nevertheless, he said, some Southeastern states get as much as 25 pecent of their rainfall in some months from hurricanes.'
' Georgia state climatologist Gayther Plummer told the symposium he thought the position of the planet Jupiter had something to do with drought in the Southeast.'
" However, Rodenhuis said he was skeptical about Plummer's thesis."
" ``It's very necessary to be cautious and analytical about the issue,'' he said ."
' AP880715-0065'
' AP-NR-07-15-88 0637EDT'
' r a PM-DroughtSymposium 07-15 0450'
' PM-Drought Symposium,0463'
' Experts: Public Interest In Climate May Dry Up After Drought'
' SMYRNA, Ga. (AP)'
" Public interest in the Earth's troubled climate may be washed away with the heavy rains that are needed to end the current U.S. drought, weather experts warned during a drought symposium here."
" ``Society tends to flit from hysteria to hysteria,'' said Pat Michaels, Virginia's state climatologist and moderator of the symposium."
' He said the 1988 drought, although not as dry as a 1986 drought in many places, has drawn much attention because some of the affected areas include large media centers.'
" ``I'm worried ..."
" that when the next drought happens, we are going to have to rediscover the climate problem,'' said Michaels, president of the Association of State Climatologists."
" Experts said Thursday that the greenhouse effect _ the warming of the Earth's atmosphere _ has brought needed attention to changes in the global climate, even though it is not directly related to the drought."
" Many of the 13 climatologists and meterologists at the symposium agreed that the Earth's temperature is warming, but they debated whether it is a short- or long-term phenomenon and its impact on Earth."
" However, Alan Hecht, director of the National Climate Program in Washington, D.C., said the uncertainty means policymakers should begin to deal with the possible effects, especially undertaking policies that ``make sense in their own right''."
' Mankind must reduce reliance on fossil fuels, he said, by becoming more energy efficient, replanting forests and investigating alternative energy supplies.'
" Scientists have warned in recent years that Earth's atmosphere is gaining in carbon dioxide and other gases, which trap heat and cause the overall temperature to rise."
' Besides fossil fuels, the depletion of forests in South America has been blamed for the increase of carbon dioxide and methane.'
' Some have warned that higher temperature will change the character of many countries, for example drying out the U.S.'
' Midwest or melting polar ice caps.'
' The symposium was sponsored by The Weather Channel, an Atlanta-based cable network, which broadcast the meeting live.'
' Earlier Thursday, the climatologists were told the movement of planets and the moon and sunspots may help lead to drought in the Southeast.'
" ``There is some evidence that as Jupiter goes around the sun at its fastest point, there are drought conditions in the Southeast in the months of April and October,'' Georgia state climatologist Gayther Plummer said."
" However, David Rodenhuis, director of the federal Climate Analysis Center in Washington, said he was skeptical of Plummer's thesis."
" ``There's an enormous number of possibilities that one could chase,'' Rodenhuis said."
' ``The next business of the scientist is to ...'
" extend the range of analysis and look for cause and effect.''"
' AP880716-0052'
' AP-NR-07-16-88 0800EDT'
' u a PM-Drought-States 07-16 1070'
' PM-Drought-States,1149'
' State-By-State Survey of Drought Developments'
' By The Associated Press'
' Here is a state-by-state summary of the latest drought developments:'
' ALABAMA'
" Recent rain in central and south Alabama haven't helped cities' water supplies enough to lift surcharges and limits on outdoor watering."
" Northern Alabama has missed most of the rain and the region's top crop, cotton, is in a critical situation, said John Trotman, state director of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service ."
' GEORGIA'
" Georgia's carpet industry may be forced to reduce production and lay off workers if the drought continues for an extended period, industry officials said."
" ``It is something you don't like to think about, but if you don't have water, you can't run your mills,'' said John A. Shaheen, vice chairman of World Carpets Inc. in Dalton ."
' ILLINOIS'
' The drought has inflicted serious damage to wildlife along the Illinois River, even though the water level has remained near normal.'
" Wayne Herndon, a biologist with the state Department of Conservation, said the drought, now nearly midway through its second summer, has damaged the river's backwater lakes, virtually eliminating a year's supply of the river's gamefish."
" The mercury hit 100 degrees Friday at O'Hare International Airport, bettering the previous high for the day of 99 and establishing a second record by giving the city its fifth 100-degree or better temperature of the summer."
' Chicago sweltered through four 100-degree days in 1934, 1947 and 1953 .'
' INDIANA'
' Thunderstorms brought rain, lightning and 70 mph winds to northern Indiana Friday night, causing widespread power outages in the city of Fort Wayne and apparently causing a toy factory to collapse.'
' No injuries were reported.'
' The Indiana Board of Health issued a heat warning as temperatures soared above 100 and humidity levels boosted the heat index to more than 110 degrees.'
' The National Weather Service said the conditions likely would continue through the weekend .'
' IOWA'
' National Guardsmen stood by with 400 gallons of drinking water for about 50 homes in Elk Horn while officials tried to find more water to get the town through the drought.'
' The U.S.'
' Agriculture Department announced Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng would visit Iowa as part of a 10-state tour of drought areas .'
' KANSAS'
' Severe thunderstorms spawning tornadoes and strong winds rolled across central Kansas Friday night.'
' A tornado touched down near Clay Center, destroying an unoccupied mobile home and damaging barns and hog sheds.'
' High winds also damaged trees and power lines .'
' KENTUCKY'
" Agriculture Commissioner Ward ``Butch'' Burnette returned from Oregon, saying he had prospects for perhaps 10,000 tons of hay, badly needed by cattle producers."
' One railroad, CSX Transportation Corp., offered to bring the hay free of charge from Chicago if the Union Pacific or Burlington Northern lines could get it to Chicago.'
' Thirty tons of Oregon hay arrived by jet in Louisville, courtesy of United Parcel Service.'
' That shipment, like several others, was earmarked for distribution Monday .'
' MICHIGAN'
' Severe thunderstorms accompanied by high winds and hail moved over much of Michigan on Friday, downing trees and causing power outages.'
' Concern over the effects of the drought on the timber industry outweighed relief brought by the showers.'
" ``You have to take more precautions, and you can't use certain machinery with exhaust systems that send sparks that might set a fire,'' said Matt Repar, who has been logging for 28 years."
' The U.S.'
" Forest Service has banned all machinery with internal combustion engines from the Upper Peninsula's Hiawatha National Forest after noon."
' John McGregor of the state Department of Natural Resources has said that if the drought keeps up, the state may ban commercial logging .'
' MINNESOTA'
' A brief thunderstorm brought little relief following record heat that helped kill 3,000 young turkeys near Princeton and prompted health warnings.'
" Friday's high of 102 degrees in the Twin Cities topped the previous record for the date, 101 degrees i 1931."
" With the ``heat index'' _ the summertime equivalent of the wind-chill factor _ forecasters said 102 degrees felt like 114."
" ``This is the kind of situation that is really bad for the sick and elderly, and especially the elderly,'' said Greg Spoden, assistant state climatologist ."
' MISSOURI'
' Gov. John Ashcroft issued his second statewide heat alert of the summer, urging private and public organizations to aid those suffering from the sizzling temperatures.'
" ``Unless we act now to gear up public and private efforts to care for those without shelter from the stifling heat, the potential for human loss over the weekend is staggering,'' Ashcroft said ."
' MONTANA'
' More than 700 firefighters battled a lightning-caused blaze that combined with other fires and spread to 14,800 acres in the Custer National Forest of southeast Montana.'
' Bulldozers, helicopters and bombers dropping fire retardant fought the blaze in the tinder-dry forest on the South Dakota border'
' NORTH DAKOTA'
' The Army Corps of Engineers has further reduced the flow of water through Orwell Dam on the Otter Tail River near Fergus Falls, Minn., a main feeder of the Red River, which runs along the Minnesota-North Dakota border.'
" The reduction could affect Fargo's supply of water, according to Ron Hendrickson, city water plant superintendent ."
' OHIO'
' Gov. Richard Celeste signed an executive order banning open burning because of extraordinary dry conditions.'
' In Columbus, farmers began loading up their shares of more than 40,000 bales of hay delivered this week from three Southern states.'
' Farmers in the southwestern corner of the state postponed cloud-seeding because there were no clouds .'
' SOUTH DAKOTA'
' Representatives from Japanese flour mills visited with wheat producers.'
" Ben Handcock, executive director of the South Dakota Wheat Commission, said the Japanese would buy wheat, but probably not from this year's crop because of the drought."
" ``They heard about the drought the same as everybody else did and they think we're out of wheat."
" The fact of the matter is that we have a lot of good quality wheat left from last year and previous years,'' Handcock said ."
' TENNESSEE'
' Farmers say the drought is causing a shortage of feed, grass and water, leading them to sell more livestock.'
' At the Tennessee-Kentucky Livestock Inc. auction barn in Guthrie, Ky.'
' , livestock sales have doubled, said an owner of the barn, Dorris Bryant .'
' WISCONSIN'
' Gov. Tommy G. Thompson signed a drought relief bill Friday making $35 million in emergency loans available to Wisconsin farmers.'
' Legislators said it could help up to 5,000 farmers avoid losing their farms .'
