' AP900802-0118'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 1335EDT'
' r i BC-Iraq-Kuwait-Quotes 08-02 0177'
' BC-Iraq-Kuwait-Quotes,0184'
' Quotes on Iraqi Invasion of Kuwait'
' With AM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By The Associated Press'
" Here are some quotes on Iraq's invasion of Kuwait:"
' ``The Iraqi government firmly believes and states that Iraq is pursuing no goal or objective and wishes only cordial relations with Kuwait.'
" Furthermore, it is the Kuwaitis themselves who will determine their own future and Iraqi forces will withdraw as soon as order has been restored''."
" _ Sabah Talat Kadrat, Iraq's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations ."
' ``The pretext to invade an independent, sovereign state is a false, flimsy pretext.'
" This kind of pretext, if it's not going to be deterred in a decisive manner and by this august assembly, all international relations will be threatened."
" No country at all will be safe after this''."
" _ Mohammad Abulhasan, Kuwait's ambassador to the United Nations ."
" ``We remain committed to take whatever actions are necessary to defend our longstanding, vital interests in the (Persian) Gulf''."
" _ President Bush, who said his advisers would ``consider all possible options available to us.''"
' AP900802-0180'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 2246EDT'
' u i AM-Iraq-Kuwait-Glance 08-02 0302'
' AM-Iraq-Kuwait-Glance,0314'
" Basic Facts of Iraq's Invasion of Kuwait"
' With AM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By The Associated Press'
" THE INVASION: Iraq's troops, led by about 350 tanks, crossed the border at dawn Thursday, and seized the Kuwaiti palace and government buildings 40 miles away."
' Early Friday, the invaders controlled Kuwait city, the capital.'
" The soldiers were also making sweeps through the southern oilfields, according to residents and Lloyds' insurance service in London."
' Diplomatic sources estimate more than 200 Kuwaitis were killed or wounded, mainly from the Emiri Guard which bore the main brunt of the invasion.'
" Kuwait's Sheik Saad al-Abdullah al-Sabah fled to safety in Saudi Arabia."
" THE FORCES: Iraq, a country of more than 17 million, has the Arab world's most battle-trained army, and had massed more than 100,000 soldiers on the Kuwaiti border."
' Kuwait, an oil-rich city-state, has 1.9 million residents _ 60 percent foreigners _ and an army of 20,300 soldiers.'
' CAUSE OF CONFLICT: President Saddam Hussein of Iraq accused Kuwait of stealing oil from its territory and forcing down oil prices through overproduction.'
" Kuwait and U.N. diplomats dismissed Iraq's claim that it invaded at the request of Kuwaiti revolutionaries."
' REACTION: The U.N.'
' Security Council voted 14-0 to condemn the invasion.'
" President Bush denounced it as ``naked agression''."
" He froze Iraq's assets in the United States and blocked almost all Iraqi imports, including oil."
' The order also froze Kuwait property under U.S. jurisdiction _ a move intended to keep Iraq from seizing it.'
' The Soviets also condemned the invasion and stopped arms sales to Iraq.'
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the nation had asked for American military intervention."
' A Pentagon source said a U.S. naval group was diverted toward the Persian Gulf.'
' Oil prices soared in frenzied trading amid fears the invasion would reduce the supply of oil .'
' AP900803-0008'
' AP-NR-08-03-90 0242EDT'
' r i PM-Iraq-KuwaitChronology 08-03 0431'
' PM-Iraq-Kuwait Chronology,0439'
' A Chronology of Key Events in the Dispute Between Iraq and Kuwait'
' With PM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By The Associated Press'
' Here is a brief chronology in the dispute between Iraq and Kuwait over oil production and their common border.'
' July 17 _ Iraqi President Saddam Hussein accuses Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of flooding the oil market and driving prices down, and that the move cost Iraq $14 billion in lost oil revenue.'
" He further charges that Arab states in the Persian Gulf are conspiring with the United States and Israel to weaken Iraq's economy and undermine its military buildup."
" July 18 _ Iraq accuses Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion worth of oil from wells along the disputed border with Iraq and of seeking to wreck Iraq's economy by overproducing oil and thus pushing down prices."
" July 20 _ Kuwaiti officials suggest Iraq's sudden outburst of belligerence is aimed at getting its creditors _ including Kuwait _ to write off billions of dollars in debts from the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war."
' July 24 _ The U.S.'
' Defense Department announces that U.S.'
" Navy warships and aircraft are holding a ``short-notice exercise'' in the Persian Gulf with the United Arab Emirates, about 600 miles southeast of the Kuwait-Iraqi border."
' Kuwait reinstates a state of alert it declared July 16 and canceled after three days of tension between the two oil-producing countries.'
' July 25 _ The Iraqi government in Baghdad says that it will not be intimidated by U.S. pressure in its oil dispute with neighboring Kuwait, and Saddams summons the U.S. ambassador for talks.'
' President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt says Iraq and Kuwait plan to meet in Saudi Arabia in an effort to resolve their dispute.'
' July 26 _ OPEC ministers in Geneva agree to halt overproduction in hopes of pushing up the price of crude oil.'
' Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates pledge to abide by the agreement.'
' Analysts say Saddam clearly influenced the outcome of the meetings.'
' July 31 _ Kuwaiti and Iraqi delegations meet in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, to negotiate the oil and border dispute.'
" Diplomats say Iraq has massed 100,000 troops on Kuwait's border, more than triple the number originally estimated."
' That number dwarfs the Kuwaiti army, which has a total of about 20,000 troops.'
' Aug. 1 _ Iraq pulls out of talks on the 2-week-old border, oil and money dispute with Kuwait shortly before it sends its forces to invade the oil-rich sheikdom.'
" Aug. 2 _ Iraq's powerful army overruns Kuwait before dawn with tank-led troops quickly seized the ruler's palace and other government buildings ."
' AP900807-0029'
' AP-NR-08-07-90 0235EDT'
' r i PM-Iran-Iraq-Rhetoric 08-07 0422'
' PM-Iran-Iraq-Rhetoric,0437'
' In Iran, Saddam is Generalissimo, Foster Child and Frankenstein'
' With PM-Iraq-Kuwait Rdp, Bjt ^By NEIL MacFARQUHAR'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP)'
' Iranian editorial writers are rejoicing now that the world is waking up to one of their most hated bogeymen: Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.'
" A Monday headline: ``We warned you Frankenstein would torment his own creators''."
' Saddam attacked Iran in September 1980 after a series of border skirmishes, spawning a war that dragged until an August 1988 cease-fire.'
' The conflict has still not formally ended.'
" Iran's late fundamentalist patriarch, the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, vowed for years to unseat Saddam."
' Never at a loss for a vivid phrase, he compared accepting the cease-fire with Saddam to drinking poison.'
' The status of Great Satan was reserved for the United States, the all-encompassing public enemy No. 1 for the Islamic Republic.'
' Iran frequently accuses both the U.S. and Saddam of trying to undermine the Islamic revolution.'
' Saddam conveniently boasts of having alone staunched the tide of radical Islam.'
' In fact one of his reasons for invading Kuwait on Thursday, the Iraqi press noted, was its gall in demanding back tens of billions of dollars loaned to Iraq during the war Saddam says he fought for all Arabs.'
' Over the past six months, successful U.N.-sponsored efforts toward face-to-face negotiations between Iraq and Iran robbed Iranian newspapers and television commentators of a favorite target.'
" Saddam's overthrow of the emir of Kuwait changed all that."
' Old scores came brimming to the surface.'
' Kuwait, after all, reflagged tankers in the United States during the Iran-Iraq war, ushering in the reason for the arrival of the U.S.'
' Navy in the Persian Gulf in force.'
" Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency printed excerpts Mondya of an editorial from the Ettela'at newspaper that was headlined: ``Foster child turns rapaciously on nourisher Kuwait''."
" It noted that Kuwait had blindly supported Iraq, ``little knowing that it was feeding a wild beast in her own neighborhood''."
' Saddam has also been called generalissimo and The Invader.'
' Under the Frankenstein headline, IRNA said in its own commentary: ``For the time being, tiny Kuwait ...'
' breathes no more.'
" With its sheikh a stateless person, and its powerful dinar which bankrolled the Iraqi military mere garbage, Kuwait is a nonentity, swallowed up by the dangerous pet it reared''."
' Despite all the attention to the dangerous pet, the Great Satan has not been forgotton.'
" According to Iran's pundits, the Great Satan planned it all."
' It wanted to get the Navy back in the Persian Gulf .'
' AP900807-0093'
' AP-NR-08-07-90 1354EDT'
' u i PM-Iraq-Foreigners 4thLd-Writethru a0588 08-07 0368'
' PM-Iraq-Foreigners, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0588,0375'
' URGENT'
' 78 Foreigners Arrive in Amman from Iraq'
' AMMAN, Jordan (AP)'
' An Iraqi airways jet carrying 78 foreigners and a number of Iraqi citizens arrived today, the first commercial flight allowed out of Iraq since it invaded Kuwait, a Japanese Embassy spokesman said.'
' The mostly Japanese tourists arrived at Amman airport at 6:15 p.m.'
' (11:15 a.m.'
' EDT) along with 34 members of an Iraqi football team, said the spokesman on condition of anonymity.'
' It was not immediately known if there were Americans on board.'
' He said that the plane was due to leave Amman for an undisclosed destination.'
' The spokesman said the plane was supposed to land in Vienna, but it was denied landing rights.'
' The U.N.'
' Security Council on Monday voted economic sanctions that ban all trade and military ties with Iraq.'
" Jordan's information minister, Ibrahim Izzedine, said earlier today that the U.S. government had asked Jordan to facilitate the entrance from Iraq of American diplomats and their dependents."
' Izzedine said the request was made through the U.S.'
' Embassy in Amman.'
' Thousands of Westerners have been stranded in Kuwait and Iraq since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Thursday.'
' They include more than 350 who were on a British Airways flight that was caught in the unrest in Kuwait.'
" A British Airways spokeswoman said today a ``substantial'' number of those passengers arrived safely in Baghdad on Monday."
' Among the passengers were 28 Americans, who also turned up in a Baghdad hotel and appear to be fine, a U.S. official said in Washington.'
' In addition, a Kuwaiti businessman said about 1,000 people a day were fleeing Kuwait through the desert to Saudi Arabia.'
' The businessman, who arrived in London on a British Airways flight from Bahrain today, said Kuwaitis and expatriates, including Westerners, were joining convoys to escape the Iraqi forces.'
" Jordan's borders with Iraq had been closed from the Iraqi side since Thursday morning, when Iraq invaded Kuwait."
" The ``provisional government of free Kuwait'' set up by Iraq had threatened Sunday to hold hostage citizens of countries imposing sanctions on it."
" A U.S. diplomat said Washington had instructed ``American citizens living in or visiting Iraq and Kuwait to leave when circumstances permit.''"
' AP900808-0030'
' AP-NR-08-08-90 0317EDT'
' r i PM-Iraq-Embargoes 08-08 0532'
' PM-Iraq-Embargoes,0547'
' Worldwide Embargoes Against Iraq Gain Momentum'
' With PM-Iraq-Kuwait Rdp, Bjt'
' By TERRIL JONES'
' Associated Press Writer'
' PARIS (AP)'
' Hitting Baghdad where it hurts, more countries have joined a U.N.-sanctioned boycott of oil from Iraq and Kuwait.'
' On Tuesday, countries ranging from powerful Japan to neutral Switzerland to tiny Cyprus cut off petroleum imports in an effort to convince the Baghdad government to withdraw its troops that invaded Kuwait on Thursday.'
" Turkey announced it was shut down the twin Iraqi oil pipelines that run through it to the Mediterranean _ carrying half of Baghdad's crude output _ and cutting off trade with Iraq."
" Baghdad's only other major pipelines exporting crude run through Saudi Arabia, where the flow has been drastically reduced."
' The U.N.'
' Security Council on Monday voted to impose broad economic sanctions against Iraq for invading small oil-rich Kuwait.'
' The measure forbids loans to Iraq or Kuwait and prohibits any activities, including the transfer of money, that would help the two countries export their goods.'
' Sanctions adopted by the European Economic Community on Saturday froze Iraqi assets and suspended the purchase of oil from the two Arab countries.'
' More than 90 percent of imports from Iraq to the 12-nation EEC are petroleum products.'
' The EEC also suspended arms sales to Iraq.'
' Switzerland, which is not a member of the United Nations, made the unusual move Tuesday of joining the U.N. sanctions and banned all trade with Iraq and Iraqi-occupied Kuwait.'
' In addition, Switzerland prohibited all payments and other financial transfers to Iraq and Kuwait.'
' Denmark, Norway and Sweden also announced embargoes on all trade with both countries.'
" Japan's participation in the U.N. sanctions was seen as especially key since Tokyo usually has taken a low profile in the Middle East, which supplies much of its petroleum needs."
' Japan imports 99 percent of its oil.'
' China joined the U.N. decision to embargo arms sales to Iraq, but has been less vocal than other major countries in condemning the invasion.'
' China sold arms to both Iran and Iraq during their eight-year war and is a major Iraqi trade partner.'
" Cyprus' sacrifice in joining the embargo was to give up 70 percent of its oil imports, government spokesman Akis Fantis said."
" Cyprus has sufficient oil supplies to last until the end of August, he said, but ``we are already in the process of taking steps to secure alternative sources ''..."
' The worldwide closing of ranks against Iraqi oil imports is likely to lead to even higher petroleum prices, which have already risen dramatically since the invasion and could have a major impact on the world economy.'
' Wholesale oil prices soared to five-year highs in New York on Monday.'
" France will introduce controls Thursday on prices of petroleum products to prevent refiners from using Iraq's invasion of Kuwait as an excuse to raise prices, acting Premier Pierre Beregovoy announced Tuesday."
' An official with the Petroleum Association of Japan said he was unaware of any increase yet in the price of gasoline for consumers.'
' The official, who refused to be further identified, said it would be at least three months before the sanctions could be expected to force higher gas prices in Japan .'
' LA080290-0037'
' 255721'
' August 2, 1990, Thursday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk'
' 299 words'
' HOW THE CONFLICT DEVELOPED'
' From Associated Press'
' Here is a brief chronology in the dispute between Iraq and Kuwait over oil production and their common border .'
' July 17: Iraqi President Saddam Hussein accuses Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of flooding the oil market and driving prices down .'
' He said that the move cost Iraq $14 billion in lost oil revenue .'
" July 18: Iraq accuses Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion worth of oil from wells along disputed border with Iraq and seeking to wreck Iraq's economy by overproducing oil and pushing down prices ."
" July 20: Kuwaiti officials suggest Iraq's sudden outburst of belligerence is aimed at getting its creditors  including Kuwait  to write off billions of dollars in debts from the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war ."
' July 24: The U.S.'
' Defense Department announces that Navy warships and aircraft are holding a "short-notice exercise" in the Persian Gulf with the United Arab Emirates, about 600 miles southeast of the Kuwait-Iraqi border.'
' Kuwait goes on state of alert .'
' July 25: Baghdad says that it will not be intimidated by U.S. pressure in its oil dispute with neighboring Kuwait, and Hussein summons the U.S. ambassador for talks.'
' President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt says Iraq and Kuwait will meet in Saudi Arabia for talks .'
' July 26: OPEC ministers in Geneva agree to halt overproduction in hopes of pushing up the price of crude oil.'
' Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates pledge to abide by the agreement .'
' July 31: Kuwaiti, Iraqi delegations meet in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, to negotiate oil and border dispute.'
" Diplomats say Iraq has 100,000 troops on Kuwait's border; Kuwait army numbers about 20,000 troops ."
' Aug. 1: Unconfirmed reports say Iraq has moved more troops toward the Kuwaiti border.'
' Talks in Jidda collapse .'
' Aug. 2: Iraqi troops invade Kuwait at 2 a.m. local time .'
' Sidebar; Chronology; Wire'
' IRAQ  FOREIGN RELATIONS  KUWAIT; MILITARY CONFRONTATIONS; OIL INDUSTRY  KUWAIT; OIL INDUSTRY  IRAQ; UNITED STATES  FOREIGN RELATIONS  IRAQ; IRAQ  BORDERS  KUWAIT'
' LA080290-0233'
' 256241'
' August 2, 1990, Thursday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 5; Late Final Desk'
' 537 words'
' IRAQ TRAMPLES KUWAIT;'
' TROOPS SEIZE CAPITAL, PALACE; EMIR FLEES;'
' 200 KUWAITIS SAID KILLED OR INJURED; U.S.'
' AID SOUGHT'
' From Associated Press'
' KUWAIT'
" Iraq's powerful army claimed victory today in its lightning invasion of this small, oil-rich kingdom."
" Tank-led troops quickly seized the ruler's palace and government buildings, and the emir fled to Saudi Arabia, Kuwaiti officials said ."
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the Iraqis occupied all government buildings in the capital and were moving south toward the country's oil facilities."
' He appealed for U.S. military intervention .'
' "The Iraqis have occupied all of Kuwait"! a Kuwaiti government official shouted in a telephone interview.'
' Diplomatic sources in the Persian Gulf estimated that more than 200 Kuwaitis were killed or wounded .'
' The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein claimed that it invaded at the request of revolutionaries who had already staged a coup and established "the provisional government of free Kuwait".'
' Kuwait and U.N. diplomats labeled the coup report a farce .'
' Baghdad television said Iraq could withdraw its forces within days or weeks, depending on how quickly the situation stabilized .'
' The assault followed two weeks of tension between Kuwait and Iraq, caused by Iraqi accusations that Kuwait stole oil from a disputed border area.'
' Saddam also accused Kuwait of exceeding OPEC production quotas, thus driving down the price of oil, a major Iraqi revenue source .'
' In recent days, diplomats said Iraq had massed more than 100,000 troops at the border.'
" Kuwait's entire armed forces has 20,300 soldiers ."
' It was the first time in modern history that an Arab nation had invaded another and taken over its government .'
" Kuwait's army was no match for Iraq, battle-hardened after eight years of war with Iran ."
' Diplomats said about 350 Iraqi tanks wheeled into the capital a few hours after crossing the border 40 miles away at dawn.'
' Witnesses said the bombardment of ports and military airports by artillery and the air force was vicious .'
" The invaders surrounded the palace of Kuwait's ruler, Sheik Jabbar al Ahmed al Sabah."
' Residents said the palace was seized after about two hours of heavy artillery barrages .'
" Diplomats said Sheik Fahd al Ahmed al Sabah, one of the emir's brothers, was killed while trying to defend the palace ."
' There were about 50 tanks around the palace and the neighboring American Embassy, residents said .'
' The al Sabah family has ruled the city-state for almost 250 years.'
' The Kuwaiti ambassador said the leaders were safe in Saudi Arabia .'
' Operating from an unknown location, al Ahmed\'s government responded to the formation of the provisional government by stating: "Kuwait is Kuwait to its people, led by the emir, Sheik Jabbar, and his Crown Prince Sheik Saad.'
' God preserve them from all harm" .'
' For its part, the provisional government announced through Baghdad\'s official Iraqi News Agency that it was dissolving Parliament and would hold "free and honest elections" at a future date .'
" Kuwait's land and sea borders were closed, as was the airport ."
' RELATED STORIES, PICTURES: Pages 2,3, BACK PAGE'
' Military Forces Compared:'
' Total Troops:'
' Iraq: 1,000,000'
' Kuwait: 20,300'
' Main Battle Tanks:'
' Iraq: 5,500'
' Kuwait: 275'
' Combat Aircraft:'
' Iraq: 513'
' Kuwait: 36'
' Ships:'
' Iraq: 51'
' Kuwait: 46'
' Source: International Institute for Strategic Studies'
' Map, IRAQI INVASION OF KUWAIT: Iraqi troops and tanks swept into Kuwait late Wednesday night and within hours had taken control of Kuwait City, the capital and only sizable town.'
' AP / Los Angeles Times'
' Wire'
' LA080690-0111'
' 258363'
' August 6, 1990, Monday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 6; Late Final Desk'
' 502 words'
' IRAQIS SEIZE WESTERNERS;'
' HUNDREDS ROUNDED UP DURING SWEEP OF KUWAIT HOTELS;'
' U.N. COUNCIL VOTES BROAD SANCTIONS'
' From Times Wire Services'
' Iraq struck back against the West today, rounding up hundreds of foreign nationals in Kuwait, as the U.N.'
' Security Council overwhelming approved sweeping trade and military sanctions against Iraq to punish it for invading the emirate .'
' The Iraqi invaders scoured hotels looking for some of the thousands of Westerners based in Kuwait or caught by the invasion.'
' More than 1 million foreigners live and work in Kuwait .'
' Several hundred Britons, Americans and West Germans were grabbed in the hotels, and some were taken to Iraq, the West German and British foreign ministries said .'
' Britain said Baghdad had given no reason for detaining 366 people, most of them passengers from a British Airways flight stranded at Kuwait airport by the invasion .'
' The U.N. sanctions, which included a ban on oil purchases, came on a vote of 13 to 0, on the 15-member council.'
' Cuba and Yemen abstained on the resolution, which was proposed by the United States .'
" The Iraqi-installed Kuwait government had earlier warned foreign countries that they should not forget their citizens in Kuwait while heaping on economic punishments, and today's roundup appeared to be a reaction against the sanctions ."
' Iraqi troops rolled into its New Jersey-sized neighbor Thursday, conquering the capital and moving south toward the Saudi Arabian border .'
' Persian Gulf oil sources said today that they had seen Saudi troops moving north toward the Kuwaiti frontier near the oil port of Khafji, but the Saudis denied that they had sent reinforcements to the border .'
' Iraqi authorities today told Turkey\'s state-run pipeline company that one of the twin pipelines that carry Baghdad\'s oil through Turkey will be closed "for reasons of marketing," officials said .'
" World oil prices soared to their highest level in more than four years today as more countries joined the attempt to strangle Baghdad's economy and force it to withdraw its invasion troops ."
" Iraq's oil revenues totaled more than $11 billion last year."
' It has been pressing for higher oil prices to rebuild an economy damaged by the 1980-88 war with Iran and settle foreign debts of up to $80 billion .'
' One of the reasons Iraq gave for invading Kuwait was Kuwaiti reluctance to slow its flow of oil and push oil prices higher, but it was Iraqi oil that had slowed today .'
' "There are very few tankers loading Iraqi oil at Yumurtalik," a senior Turkish government official said, referring to the export jetties on the Turkish side of the Mediterranean Sea .'
' In Baghdad, President Saddam Hussein ordered drills for millions of people in case mass evacuations were needed .'
" He warned his nation's 17 million people to be on alert for possible U.S. or Israeli attacks."
' The United States has warned Iraq against any attack on Saudi Arabia, and President Bush has said all options are open for the United States .'
' Hundreds of Kuwaitis took to the desert to flee into Saudi Arabia, their children and a few belongings crammed into four-wheel-drive vehicles .'
' RELATED STORIES: Pages 2,3'
' Wire'
' LA080890-0078'
' 258632'
' August 8, 1990, Wednesday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 12; Column 2; Foreign Desk'
' 248 words'
' INVADERS TAKING OVER LIVES, HOMES OF KUWAITIS, AMBASSADOR CHARGES'
' By GERALDINE BAUM, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' WASHINGTON'
" Invading Iraqis have been permitted to take over the homes and even wear the clothes of Kuwaitis who have been killed or have fled their homeland, Kuwait's ambassador to the United States charged Tuesday ."
' Sheik Saud al Nasir al Sabah said in an interview that he had spoken by telephone to several Kuwaitis taking refuge in Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, who reported that the Iraqis had made it easy for them to leave .'
' That is because the fleeing Kuwaitis apparently are being replaced by Iraqis seeking to meld in with the local population, he contended .'
' "They are trucking them in, busing them in, trying to replace the population, to change the makeup of the place," Saud said, adding they were issuing the new residents cards that identify them as Kuwaiti citizens.'
' "They are giving them Kuwaiti clothes in order to make it appear that these are the people of Kuwait.'
' They are taking the houses, robbing the houses" .'
' Kuwaiti officials who have been detained by the Iraqi military and who have refused to cooperate have been executed, Saud claimed, adding: "We have eyewitness reports.'
' Some were bused back to Baghdad for further interrogation.'
' We don\'t know what has become of them" .'
' Kuwaiti refugees have also reported that almost all government buildings and palaces have been blown up and destroyed, Saud said .'
' There has been "mass destruction," he said, noting that all official installations except the water system and oil equipment are ruined.'
' "Everything is gone" .'
' IRAQ  FOREIGN RELATIONS  KUWAIT; IRAQ  ARMED FORCES  KUWAIT; MILITARY CONFRONTATIONS; IRAQ  ARMED FORCES  KUWAIT; ASSIMILATION'
