' AP900731-0113'
' AP-NR-07-31-90 1559EDT'
' r i AM-Iraq-Kuwait 07-31 0539'
' AM-Iraq-Kuwait,0558'
' 100,000 Troops Massed on Iraq-Kuwait Border as Talks Begin'
' By ABDULLAH AL-SHEHRI'
' JIDDAH, Saudi Arabia (AP)'
' Kuwaiti and Iraqi negotiators embraced warmly Tuesday as they began talks on their oil and border dispute, sources said.'
" Diplomats reported that Iraq had massed 100,000 troops on Kuwait's border."
' Gulf-based diplomatic sources said the Iraqi force, triple the number earlier reported, included about 300 Soviet-made tanks, and dwarfed the entire Kuwaiti army of 20,000 troops.'
' The diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the troops have been concentrated along the border since last week, when Iraq began threatening Kuwait.'
' Iraq accused the small Persian Gulf state of stealing oil from a disputed border region and forcing oil prices to drop.'
' The diplomats said the number of troops was at first difficult to determine.'
" The delegation leaders, Crown Prince and Prime Minister Sheik Saad al-Abdullah al-Sabah of Kuwait, and Izzat Ibrahim, deputy chairman of Iraq's Revolutionary Command Council, met privately for two hours."
' There were no details on the negotiations, but sources said the meetings will continue Wednesday.'
' Diplomatic sources have said they expect Arab mediators to push the two sides to sign a treaty of non-belligerency to be followed by protracted negotiations on borders and compensation.'
' The Iraq-Kuwait crisis broke out on July 17 when Iraqi President Saddam Hussein accused Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of driving down oil prices by exceeding quotas set for them by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.'
' Saddam said the move cost Iraq $14 billion in lost revenue.'
' Saddam also demanded compensation for the $2.4 billion in oil he claimed Kuwait pumped illegally from an oil field which straddles the unmarked border between the two countries.'
' Iraq also demanded that Kuwait forgive $15 billion in loans it extended to Baghdad during the eight-year Iran-Iraq war.'
" Iraq's tough talk appeared to have succeeded."
' Kuwait and the U.A.E agreed to stick to their oil quotas at an OPEC meeting last week.'
' OPEC member states also agreed to a longstanding Iraqi demand to raised target crude oil prices from $18 to $21 a barrel.'
' Kuwaiti and Iraqi officials agreed to meet in Jiddah after intensive mediation efforts by King Fahd and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.'
' Kuwaiti leaders had insisted that Iraq pull back its troops before conciliation talks could began, but later dropped that demand.'
' Kuwaiti officials also asked that Iraq agree to demarcate the disputed border between the nations, a move Iraq has refused.'
" Iraq has historically laid claim to all of Kuwait and has long coveted the Kuwaiti islands of Bubiyan and Warba, which command access to Iraq's sole outlet into the Persian Gulf."
' The mediators have succeeded in toning down a vitriolic campaign against Kuwait by the Iraqi state-run media.'
' On Tuesday, the Iraqi delegation left Baghdad without any public announcement.'
' The leading Al-Thawra daily newspaper called the Jiddah meeting ``an opportunity ...'
' for Kuwait ...'
" to perceive Iraq's demands and respond to its rights''."
' In contrast, the Kuwaiti delegation left for Jiddah with fanfare and publicity.'
" The Kuwaiti papers said they hoped the Jiddah meeting was the start of ``a final just settlement'' of the differences between Iraq and Kuwait, in a manner ensuring the ``legitimate rights of each.''"
' AP900802-0092'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 1102EDT'
' r i PM-UN-Iraq-Kuwait 3rdLd-Writethru a0584 08-02 0618'
' PM-UN-Iraq-Kuwait, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0584,0636'
' U.N. Security Council Condemns Iraqi Invasion, Seeks Pullout, Talks'
" Eds: Leads with 5 grafs to UPDATE with British envoy's comment."
" Pickup 5th graf pvs, ``The United..''"
' With PM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By KATHY CHENAULT'
' Associated Press Writer'
' UNITED NATIONS (AP)'
' The U.N.'
" Security Council today swiftly condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, demanding an unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi troops and calling for immediate negotiations between the countries."
" The Iraqi envoy said his country's troops would withdraw ``as soon as the situation is stable,'' perhaps within ``a few days or some weeks''."
" The Security Council resolution was adopted 14-0 in an emergency session requested by the United States and Kuwait hours after today's pre-dawn invasion."
' Neither Kuwait nor Iraq is on the 15-member council.'
' The representative of Yemen said he did not vote because he had not received instructions from his government.'
" Britain's U.N. envoy, Crispin Tickell, condemned the invasion as an ``ugly moment in world affairs''."
' Kuwait is a former British colony.'
" ``The United States has made it clear that it will stand shoulder to shoulder with Kuwait in this time of crisis,'' U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering told the council."
" ``It is our understanding that the present aggression was completely unprovoked''."
" Baghdad radio claimed Iraq had come to the aid of ``revolutionary youth in Kuwait'' whom it said had toppled the Kuwaiti government."
" Kuwait's ambassador to the United Nations, Mohammad Abulhasan, denied the invasion was in response to a call from help from a new government."
" ``The pretext to invade an independent, sovereign state is a false, flimsy pretext,'' he said."
" ``This kind of pretext, if it's not going to be deterred in a decisive manner and by this august assembly, all international relations will be threatened."
" No country at all will be safe after this''."
" A statement read by Sabah Talat Kadrat, Iraq's deputy permanant representative said Iraq's forces would withdraw when what it referred to as the ``free Kuwaiti interim government'' requested it."
' The Iraqi statement was also reported by the Iraqi News Agency in Baghdad.'
' The Security Council resolution said the council supports all efforts for negotiations between Iraq and Kuwait.'
' It specifically endorsed mediation efforts by the Arab League, which met in emergency session in Cairo today.'
" The Iraqi invasion posed ``a breach of international peace and security,'' the Security Council said."
" Kadrat said the events were related to an internal matter that was not the council's concern."
" ``The Iraqi government firmly believes and states that Iraq is pursuing no goal or objective and wishes only cordial relations with Kuwait,'' said Kadrat."
" ``Furthermore, it is the Kuwaitis themselves who will determine their own future and Iraqi forces will withdraw as soon as order has been restored''."
' Members of the 15-member Security Council began gathering at the United Nations shortly after midnight.'
' Diplomats held more than three hours of private consultations before convening the formal meeting.'
' Kuwaiti spokesman Nasser Al-Sabeeh said before the formal meeting that Kuwait wants negotiations with Iraq to be mediated by the Arab League.'
" ``But if it's necessary, then we would seek U.N. mediation,'' he said."
' Two weeks ago, President Saddam Hussein of Iraq threatened military action with Kuwait over its violation of OPEC oil production ceilings and a disputed border oil field.'
" Saddam also has accused some Persian Gulf nations of conspiring with the United States and Israel to weaken Iraq's economy and undermine its military buildup."
" Today's resolution was sponsored by Canada, Colombia, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Finland, France, the United States, Britain and Malaysia."
' The 15 members of the Security Council are China, Yemen, Romania, the Soviet Union, Cuba, Canada, Colombia, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Finland, France, the United States, the United Kingdom, Malaysia and Zaire .'
' AP900802-0135'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 1504EDT'
' u i PM-Iraq-Kuwait 10thLd-Writethru 08-02 1032'
' PM-Iraq-Kuwait, 10th Ld-Writethru,a0684-71,1068'
' URGENT'
' Iraq Invades Kuwait; U.S.'
' Responds With Sanctions'
" Eds: Inserts 1 graf after 12th, `A Pentagon'... to UPDATE with Baker to fly to Moscow for joint statement, sub 20th, `Egypt's Middle'... to UPDATE with diplomats confirming death."
' Pickup 1st graf of a0571, `Kuwait radio.. .'
' LaserPhotos NY4,5,6,8; LaserGraphics'
' By STEPHANIE McGEHEE'
' KUWAIT (AP)'
" Iraq's powerful army invaded this small oil-rich kingdom early today."
" Tank-led troops quickly seized the ruler's palace and government buildings, and the emir fled to Saudi Arabia, Kuwaiti officials said."
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the Iraqis occupied all government buildings in the capital and were moving south toward the country's oil facilities."
' He appealed for U.S. military intervention.'
' A Pentagon source said U.S.'
' Navy ships were diverted to the region, but President Bush said the subject of intervention was not being discussed.'
" ``The Iraqis have occupied all of Kuwait''! a Kuwaiti government official shouted in a telephone interview."
' Diplomatic sources in the Persian Gulf estimated that more than 200 Kuwaitis were killed or wounded.'
" The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein claimed it invaded at the request of revolutionaries who had already staged a coup and established ``The Provisional Government of Free Kuwait''."
' Kuwait and U.N. diplomats labeled the coup report a farce.'
' The assault followed two weeks of tension between Kuwait and Iraq, caused by Iraqi accusations that Kuwait stole oil from a disputed border area.'
' Saddam also accused Kuwait of exceeding OPEC production quotas, thus driving down the price of oil, a major Iraqi revenue source.'
' The attack had wide-ranging ramifications: _Oil prices soared $3 a barrel in early trading because of fears the invasion would disrupt supplies.'
' Prices were about $2 higher later.'
' _President Bush signed orders freezing Iraqi assets in the United States and blocking most Iraqi imports, including oil.'
' Oil accounts for 97 percent of Iraqi imports to the United States and makes up about 3.5 percent of U.S. oil consumption.'
' Bush also froze Kuwaiti assets to prevent Iraq from seizing them.'
" _The Soviet Union, Iraq's main arms supplier, halted weapons sales."
' _The U.N.'
' Security Council voted 14-0 to denounce the invasion and demanded immediate withdrawal of Iraqi troops.'
' _A Pentagon source said the aircraft carrier USS Independence, escorted by a six-ship battle group, was diverted from the Indian Ocean toward the gulf, where other U.S. ships were already patrolling.'
' _Secretary of State James A. Baker III planned to fly to Moscow to issue a rare joint statement Friday with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze about the invasion.'
' The plan, which was announced in Washington, illustrates the dramatic improvement in relations between the superpowers, who once routinely lined up on opposite sides of most regional disputes.'
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador, Sheik Saud Nasir al-Sabah, told reporters in Washington: ``We are desperate for any help we can get''."
' He appealed specifically for American intervention.'
' In recent days, diplomats said Iraq had massed more than 100,000 troops at the border.'
" Kuwait's entire armed forces has 20,300 soldiers."
" Bush said the United States would ``take whatever steps necessary'' to defend interests in the gulf."
" Asked if this included military force, Bush said: ``We're not discussing intervention''."
' But he said he would not discuss military options publicly.'
' It was the first time in modern history an Arab nation had invaded another and taken over its government.'
" Kuwait's army was no match for Iraq, battle-hardened after eight years of war with Iran."
" Iraq has emerged as the Arab world's strongest and most militant military power, and Saddam has a vast arsenal of chemical and conventional weapons."
' Diplomats said about 350 Iraqi tanks wheeled into the capital a few hours after crossing the border 40 miles away at dawn.'
' Witnesses said the bombardment of ports and military airports by artillery and the air force was vicious.'
" The invaders surrounded the palace of Kuwait's ruler, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah."
' Residents said the palace was seized after about two hours of heavy artillery barrages.'
" Diplomats said Sheik Fahd al-Ahmed al-Sabah, one of the emir's brothers, was killed while trying to defend the palace."
' There were about 50 tanks around the palace and the neighboring American Embassy, residents said.'
' The al-Sabah family has ruled the city-state for almost 250 years.'
' The Kuwaiti ambassador said the leaders were safe in Saudi Arabia.'
" Operating from an unknown location, al-Ahmed's government responded to the formation of the provisional government by stating: ``Kuwait is Kuwait to its people, let by the emir, Sheik Jaber, and his Crown Prince Sheik Saad."
" God preserve them from all harm''."
" For its part, the provisional government announced through Baghdad's official Iraqi News Agency that it was dissolving parliament and would hold ``free and honest elections'' at a future date."
' The Iraqi forces were led by the elite Republican Guard, which did the brunt of fighting in the Iran-Iraq war.'
' Troops set up roadblocks at major intersections and shot at cars that did not stop.'
' Baghdad television said Iraq qould withdraw its forces within days or weeks, depending on how quickly the situation stabilized.'
" Kuwait's land and sea borders were closed, as was the airport."
' Diplomats said the invasion was too swift to arrange the evacuation of nationals, and foreigners were asked to keep a low profile.'
' There are about 4,000 Americans among the large expatriate community in Kuwait, where more than 60 percent of the 1.8 million residents are foreigners.'
' U.S. officials monitoring the situation had no reports of harm to U.S. citizens in Iraq, White House spokesman Roman Popadiuk said.'
' Foreigners reached by telephone said they watched from their windows or dived for cover as the invasion began.'
" ``We were totally unprepared,'' said Catherine Baker of Illinois."
" ``One feels like there should have been a bit of warning''."
' The British Embassy was hit by shell-fire and the Sheraton and Hilton hotels evacuated their clientele, the diplomats said.'
' The invasion came hours after Iraq broke off talks intended to mend its differences with Kuwait.'
' Iraqi first threatened military action against its former ally Kuwait two weeks ago.'
' Washington declared its support for Kuwait from the start.'
' During the Iran-Iraq war, American ships protected U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tankers from attacks in the gulf .'
' Kuwait radio, 1st graf, a0571'
' AP900802-0159'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 1857EDT'
' u i AM-ArabLeague 08-02 0593'
' AM-Arab League,0615'
" Arab League Fails at Emergency Meeting to Condemn Iraq's Invasion"
' With AM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By DALIA BALIGH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CAIRO, Egypt (AP)'
" An emergency Arab League Council failed to publicly condemn Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Thursday and adjourned its meeting for 24 hours as Arab leaders held urgent consultations on how to handle the crisis."
" Kuwait's Cabinet affairs minister, Abdel-Rahman el-Awadi told reporters he asked the 21-nation Arab League to condemn the attack."
" He accused Iraq of using the ``laws of the jungle''."
" President Hosni Mubarak and Jordan's King Hussein met in Alexandria and telephoned Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, President Bush, Saudi King Fahd and Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh on the crisis."
' Hussein later left for home.'
' Sources close to the Arab League Council said its members agreed to convene an emergency Arab summit but decided to leave the when and where up to Arab leaders.'
' The sources spoke on condition of anonymity.'
' The Council meeting of foreign ministers was convened in Cairo at Kuwaiti request hours after Iraqi military forces took over the small Persian Gulf state.'
' Some member nations sent lower-level representatives.'
' Following its evening session, attended by Saadoon Hamadi, a member of the Iraqi Revolutionary Council, Foreign Minister Esmat Abdel-Meguid of Egypt told reporters the Council would meet again Friday.'
' Saddam promised Mubarak two weeks ago that he would not invade Kuwait in their oil dispute.'
" At Thursday's closed session, Hamadi reiterated Iraq's claim its forces entered Kuwait at the request of a Kuwaiti revolutionary group that had overthrown the government."
" A conference source said several Arab foreign ministers replied that ``they considered this to be an Iraqi invasion which is against all United Nations and Arab League conventions''."
" So far, only Lebanon's prime minister and foreign minister, Salim Hoss, has joined Kuwait in Cairo in publicly condemning the invasion _ the first time in modern history one Arab country invaded another to take control of the government."
" Hoss told reporters, ``We do not see any justification for what happened, whatever the arguments and pretexts''."
' The invasion was denounced by the United States and other Western nations and by the Soviet Union.'
' The Arab League Council met early Thursday and then adjourned to await the arrival of Hamdoon.'
" Iraq's ambassador to Egypt, Nabil Najm, sat in until Hamdoon arrived."
" ``The United Nation's Security Council has condemned the invasion and the issue is now being discussed within the framework of the Arab League and we hope that it will issue a condemnation within the hour and that Arabs stand against this invasion,'' Kuwait's Awadi said."
' ``Arab leaders must take the initiative and stop this bloodshed and return things to their normal situation.'
" We also call on Iraq to withdraw its troops''."
' Hamadi told reporters upon arrival, ``I see this meeting as unnecessary ...'
' There is no government presently in Kuwait.'
" There is a group which started the revolution and which will reveal itself shortly''."
' His comments were carried by the Middle East News Agency.'
" MENA said Kuwait invoked the 1950 Arab joint defense pact and asked the Arab League Council to dispatch a joint Arab force to ``defend Kuwait against the invasion''."
" In the event of military aggression against any League member, the pact all members, to ``take, individually and collectively, all steps available, including the use of armed force, to repel the aggression and restore security and peace''."
" The ministers were in Cairo to attend the Organization of Islamic Conference's foreign ministers meeting."
' All Arab League members also belong to the Islamic conference .'
' AP900802-0164'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 1937EDT'
' u i AM-KuwaitGovernment 08-02 0437'
' AM-Kuwait Government,0449'
" Kuwaiti `Free Government' Statements Indicate Iraqi Control"
' With AM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By NEIL MacFARQUHAR'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP)'
' Iraq says it invaded Kuwait at the request of a revolutionary organization there, but diplomats dismiss that rationale as a large-scale charade.'
' The diplomatic world has remained largely unconviced by the flood of statements issued from Iraq in the name of the Provisional Free Kuwait Government.'
" Britain's U.N. ambassador, Crispin Tickell, called the Iraqi action ``an invasion from the outside ..."
" a phony coup d'etat from within''."
" He said the invasion had led to ``the purported establishment of a puppet government''."
' In a rare display of solidarity, the United States and the Soviet Union called for Iraq to withdraw and imposed sanctions.'
' The U.N.'
' Security Council voted 14-0 to condemn the invasion.'
" But Iraq's deputy permanent U.N. representative, Sabah Talat Kadrat, said the Security Council should not be debating the issue, because the fall of the Kuwaiti Emir, Sheik Jaber Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah, was an internal matter."
' The official Kuwait News Agency, monitored in Nicosia, did not issue a single story all day.'
" Its computer periodically sputtered out the phrase ``Line cut''."
" On the other hand, state-run Iraqi News Agency from Baghdad came alive with a series of communiques from the ``provisional government''."
' The members were not identified.'
" The first statement said the provisional government ``finds that one of its primordial obligations is to remedy the harm done by the deposed, corrupt government to our brothers in Iraq''."
' Iraq has been feuding with Kuwait over a border dispute.'
' It has also accused Kuwait of violating its oil production quotas set by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, costing Iraq of much-needed revenues because oil is cheaper when supplies are higher.'
" The statement on the Iraqi News Agency said the border dispute would be settled with ``fraternity and Arab national interests,'' indicating Iraq would probably take the land it wants."
' The statement also said the Al-Sabah family, which had ruled Kuwait for almost 250 years, was working in concert with Zionist and colonial powers to plot against Iraq.'
' That is the charge the Iraqi press leveled at Kuwait when tensions began to rise in mid-July.'
" ``Falsification of elections, authoritarianism, persecution of patriotic personalities have always been characteristics of the Al-Sabah family,'' the statement said."
' Kuwait is one of the few Arab states that has experimented with a freely elected parliament.'
' A new National Council with 50 members voted into office and 25 appointed by the emir took office after June elections.'
' The communiques from the Iraqi News Agency said the National Council has been disbanded .'
' AP900802-0180'
' AP-NR-08-02-90 2246EDT'
' u i AM-Iraq-Kuwait-Glance 08-02 0302'
' AM-Iraq-Kuwait-Glance,0314'
" Basic Facts of Iraq's Invasion of Kuwait"
' With AM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By The Associated Press'
" THE INVASION: Iraq's troops, led by about 350 tanks, crossed the border at dawn Thursday, and seized the Kuwaiti palace and government buildings 40 miles away."
' Early Friday, the invaders controlled Kuwait city, the capital.'
" The soldiers were also making sweeps through the southern oilfields, according to residents and Lloyds' insurance service in London."
' Diplomatic sources estimate more than 200 Kuwaitis were killed or wounded, mainly from the Emiri Guard which bore the main brunt of the invasion.'
" Kuwait's Sheik Saad al-Abdullah al-Sabah fled to safety in Saudi Arabia."
" THE FORCES: Iraq, a country of more than 17 million, has the Arab world's most battle-trained army, and had massed more than 100,000 soldiers on the Kuwaiti border."
' Kuwait, an oil-rich city-state, has 1.9 million residents _ 60 percent foreigners _ and an army of 20,300 soldiers.'
' CAUSE OF CONFLICT: President Saddam Hussein of Iraq accused Kuwait of stealing oil from its territory and forcing down oil prices through overproduction.'
" Kuwait and U.N. diplomats dismissed Iraq's claim that it invaded at the request of Kuwaiti revolutionaries."
' REACTION: The U.N.'
' Security Council voted 14-0 to condemn the invasion.'
" President Bush denounced it as ``naked agression''."
" He froze Iraq's assets in the United States and blocked almost all Iraqi imports, including oil."
' The order also froze Kuwait property under U.S. jurisdiction _ a move intended to keep Iraq from seizing it.'
' The Soviets also condemned the invasion and stopped arms sales to Iraq.'
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the nation had asked for American military intervention."
' A Pentagon source said a U.S. naval group was diverted toward the Persian Gulf.'
' Oil prices soared in frenzied trading amid fears the invasion would reduce the supply of oil .'
' AP900803-0004'
' AP-NR-08-03-90 0819EDT'
' r i PM-Iraq-Analysis 08-03 0895'
' PM-Iraq-Analysis,0923'
' Saddam Grabs Kuwait to Fulfill Territorial, Financial Ambitions'
' Eds: Also in Friday AMs report .'
' With PM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' LaserPhotos NY4, LON2 of Aug. 2'
' An AP News Analysis'
' By NEIL MacFARQUHAR'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP)'
' Iraqi President Saddam Hussein seemed determined to solve his financial problems and fulfill territorial ambitions by dethroning the government of neighboring Kuwait.'
' The invasion, unprecedented in modern Arab history, reflected the brutality Saddam has used to crush all opposition at home since coming to power in 1979.'
" The sentence for criticizing Saddam is death, and the president considered Kuwait's oil overproduction and the subsequent fall in the price of oil a personal affront to Iraq."
' ``Iraqis will not forget the saying that cutting necks is better than cutting means of living.'
" Oh God Almighty, be witness that we have warned them,'' he said last month after prices tumbled below $14 per barrel."
' He accused Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of costing Iraq $14 billion in lost oil revenue by ignoring their quotas assigned by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.'
' He also accused Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion by pumping oil from a disputed field that straddled their border, and demanded that Kuwait write off an estimated $15 billion it loaned Iraq during the Persian Gulf war.'
' Saddam was reported to be incensed that Kuwait was demanding repayment for the wartime loans.'
' Saddam said he fought the war to protect the Arabs from the fundamentalist revolution fomented by the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in Persian, mainly Shiite Moslem Iran.'
" Never mind that Iraq started the war in 1980 by invading Iran after a series of border skirmishes along the Shatt-al-Arab waterway, Iraq's only outlet to the Gulf."
" Despite claims that the war was an unprecedented victory, the long conflict stalled Iraq's development, dragging on for eight years."
' It has still not formally ended.'
' The war bills kept the government from delivering material benefits promised to the Iraqi people directly after the war.'
' The 1990 budget slashed funds for imports and Iraqis were told to brace for another year of austerity.'
' Private investment has failed to take hold.'
' Iraq ended the war an estimated $70 billion in debt.'
' Its main gulf port of Basra is still blocked and its oil infrastructure damaged.'
' Tens of thousands of Iraqi prisoners of war languish in Iranian prisons and an estimated 500,000 Iraqis were killed or wounded.'
" Despite its puny size, Kuwait's oil reserves almost match Iraq's 100 billion barrels."
" By controlling Kuwait, Saddam could help solve the financial hangover from the Persian Gulf war and fulfill Iraq's longstanding wish for more gulf coastline."
" Iraq's 100,000 troops massed at the border in the past few weeks were believed part of a pressure campaign to make Kuwait capitulate to Iraq's demands."
" But Kuwait's pledge two weeks ago to obey new OPEC quotas and Saddam's promise to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak that he would not invade lulled the Arab world into the sense the crisis was over."
' Homage to the cause of Arab unity has been paramount in Middle East politics since postwar independence from colonial powers.'
' Although a civil war in Yemen in the 1960s brought Egyptian and Saudi Arabian intervention on opposing sides, no Arab state has ever directly deposed the government of a fellow Arab League member.'
' Despite Iraqi claims that it is helping internal opposition liberate Kuwait, it has long coveted the tiny emirate.'
' The Iraqi government refused to recognize its independence in 1961 and threatened to attack then, but backed down when Britain landed troops in Kuwait.'
" The invasion shook Kuwait's neighbors along the Gulf."
' It proved the decade-old Gulf Cooperation Council that groups Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Kuwait was toothless.'
' The GCC did not issue a statement, much less implement its mutual defense treaty.'
' While Iraq was unlikely to invade Saudi Arabia, it could use the precedent of Kuwait to browbeat its neighbors on local policy issues.'
' Bombing an oil field would be a sufficient reminder of what happened to Kuwait when it balked at Iraqi demands.'
' Also in a region entirely ruled by absolute monarchs, the fall of one makes the rest feel extremely vulnerable.'
' In a series of bellicose statements in recent months, Saddam has sought to focus domestic attention outside Iraq.'
" In March he threatened to burn half of Israel with Iraq's chemical weapons _ banned under international law _ if Iraq was attacked."
' It was a popular stance among Arabs frustrated with the lack of progress toward peace and a Palestinian nation in the Arab-Israeli conflict.'
' Then Britain arrested several people on charges they were smuggling nuclear triggers into Baghdad.'
' Weeks later, police in Europe impounded what they said was parts to a supergun capable of firing chemical or nuclear shells into Israel.'
' Saddam cried foul, claiming the West was trying to wreck the scientific progress of the Arabs.'
' Saddam has sought to inherit the mantle of the late Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nassar as the leader of the Arab world.'
" His relentless personality cult has dubbed him ``The Knight of the Arabs''."
' For Kuwait on Thursday, he was a dark knight.'
" Asked the reason for the invasion, Kuwait's ambassador to Washington Sheik Saud Nasir Al-Sabah said at a news conference: ``Ambition."
' Hegemony. Control of the whole area.'
" There is not any reason for it.''"
' AP900804-0057'
' AP-NR-08-04-90 0828EDT'
' r i PM-Kuwait-Saudi 08-04 0538'
' PM-Kuwait-Saudi,0552'
' Saudis Take No Steps Against Iraq'
' With PM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By NICK LUDINGTON'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP)'
" Saudi Arabia, an oil-rich ally of Kuwait, has been subdued in its reaction to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait."
' The only direct Saudi statement since the invasion was made by an anonymous government spokesman through the official Saudi Press Agency the day after the Iraqi move.'
" It did not condemn Thursday's invasion."
" It said Saudi Arabia was following the Kuwait situation ``with extreme concern'' and that King Fahd would be seeking to calm the situation and to find a solution ``in a manner ensuring the interests of all''."
' The only tangible help Saudi Arabia gave the Kuwait government was to shelter members of the ruling family, including the emir, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah, and his crown prince.'
' Both nations are tightly run by royal families.'
' The Saudis also allowed them briefly to operate a radio, reportedly from a mobile van in the area around the Saudi-Kuwait border.'
' It broadcast calls for resistance to the Iraqis.'
" But on Friday the radio went off the air after a desperate call: ``The people of Kuwait appeal to you oh brethren, oh Arabs, oh beloved brothers, oh Moslems, rush, rush to their help''."
' It was not known if the radio had been discovered by the Iraqis or shut down by the Saudis to avoid provoking Iraqi President Saddam Hussein at a time when fears were being expressed that he might invade Saudi Arabia as well.'
' Oil executives said Saudi Arabia has not and will not take the most potent action possible against Iraq _ closing the pipeline that carries Iraqi oil for export across Saudi Arabia to the Red Sea.'
' The executives said the Saudis realize this would give the belligerent Saddam an excuse to attack and occupy the Saudi oil fields 150 miles south of Kuwait, giving Iraq control of more oil than any other country in the world.'
" Turkey also has refused to comment about President Bush's suggestion that Turkey cut off Iraq's oil pipeline to the Mediterranean."
" Two parallel pipelines pump Iraqi crude oil to a terminal at Yumurtalik at the eastern corner of Turkey's Mediterranean coast and constitute Iraq's major oil export outlet."
' The Saudis did condemn the invasion as part of a joint statement issued by the Gulf Cooperation Council, in which it is allied for economic and security cooperation with Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and Bahrain.'
' The six states issued a statement saying, ``We strongly condemn and are very sorry for this attack that one Arab state took against another Arab state.'
" ... We do not recognize anything resulting from it''."
" Iraq's huge armed force is clearly too much for the joint 3,000-man Gulf Cooperation Council force, based at Hafr al-Baten in northeastern Saudi Arabia 65 miles south of Kuwait."
" But there was no talk of specific action against Iraq by Kuwait's partners."
' Saudi Arabia was also one of the 14 members of the 21-member Arab League that condemned the invasion in the same terms as the Gulf Cooperation Council.'
' The Arab League, with one-third of its members voting against the resolution or abstaining, was clearly unable to take any direct action .'
' AP900804-0067'
' AP-NR-08-04-90 1116EDT'
' r i AM-Iraq-Saudi 08-04 0540'
' AM-Iraq-Saudi,0555'
' Saudis Take No Steps Against Iraq'
' With AM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By NICK LUDINGTON'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP)'
" Saudi Arabia has been subdued in its reaction to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, which places Iraqi forces near the oil-rich kingdom's border."
' Oil executives said Saudi Arabia has not and will not take the most potent action possible against Iraq _ closing the pipeline that carries Iraqi oil for export across Saudi Arabia to the Red Sea.'
" The executives said the Saudis believe this would give Iraq's belligerent president, Saddam Hussein, an excuse to attack and occupy Saudi oil fields 150 miles south of Kuwait, giving Iraq control of more oil than any other country in the world."
' The only direct Saudi statement since the invasion was made by an anonymous government spokesman through the official Saudi Press Agency the day after the Iraqi move.'
" The statement said Saudi Arabia was following the Kuwait situation ``with extreme concern'' and that King Fahd would be seeking to calm the situation and to find a solution ``in a manner ensuring the interests of all''."
' The statement did not condemn the invasion.'
' The only tangible help Saudi Arabia gave the Kuwaiti government in the wake of the invasion was to shelter members of the ruling family, including the emir, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah, and the crown prince.'
' Both nations are tightly run by royal families and have been close allies.'
' The Saudis also allowed the Kuwaiti royal family to briefly operate a radio, reportedly from a mobile van, in the area around the Saudi-Kuwait border.'
" But Friday the radio went off the air after a desperate call: ``The people of Kuwait appeal to you oh brethren, oh Arabs, oh beloved brothers, oh Moslems, rush, rush to their help''."
' It was not known if the radio had been discovered by the Iraqis or shut down by the Saudis to avoid provoking Saddam at a time when fears were being expressed that he might invade Saudi Arabia as well.'
" Saudi Arabia borders Kuwait and Iraq's invasion forces were reportedly near the Saudi border."
' The Saudis did condemned the invasion as part of a joint statement issued by the Gulf Cooperation Council, in which it is allied with Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and Bahrain.'
' The six states issued a statement saying, ``We strongly condemn and are very sorry for this attack that one Arab state took against another Arab state.'
" ... We do not recognize anything resulting from it''."
" Iraq's 1-million-member armed forces is clearly too much for the joint 3,000-member Gulf Cooperation Council force or Saudi Arabia's 65,700-member army."
' Saudi Arabia was also one of the 14 members of the 21-member Arab League that condemned the invasion in the same terms as the Gulf Cooperation Council.'
' The Arab League, with one-third of its members voting against the resolution or abstaining, was clearly unable to take any direct action.'
" Turkey has also refused to take action and has not commented about President Bush's suggestion that it cut off Iraq's oil pipeline to the Mediterranean."
" Two parallel pipelines pump Iraqi crude oil to a terminal at Yumurtalik at the eastern corner of Turkey's Mediterranean coast and constitute Iraq's major oil export outlet ."
' AP900805-0060'
' AP-NR-08-05-90 2113EDT'
' u i AM-UN-Iraq-Kuwait 3rdLd-Writethru a0792 08-05 0574'
' AM-UN-Iraq-Kuwait, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0792,0585'
' United State Pushes for Iraqi Sanctions at United Nations'
" Eds: LEADS thruout to UPDATE with U.S. ambassador's comments, comments from Britain, Cuba; DELETES outdated material thruout; no pickup"
' With AM-Iraq-Kuwait, Bjt'
' By VICTORIA GRAHAM'
' Associated Press Writer'
' UNITED NATIONS _ The United States urged other U.N. members at talks Sunday to impose broad economic and military sanctions on Iraq.'
' Western diplomats said the world body is expected to adopt the measures.'
' Should the U.N.'
' Security Council impose comprehensive sanctions, it would be the first time since 1967 it has taken such action against a member state.'
' The last time such sanctions were imposed was against the white minority government of Rhodesia.'
' Western diplomats said they expected up to 14 positive votes on the 15-member council for sanctions against Iraq.'
' They said they expected no vetoes, allowing the legally binding measure to be adopted, probably on Monday.'
' They said Cuba was the holdout.'
" U.S. Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering told reporters after closed-door talks Sunday that the council discussed ``the absolute necessity of moving ahead toward a broad resolution of sanctions''."
' He said he expected a vote Monday.'
' Pickering said the United States had circulated six or seven drafts of a detailed resolution.'
" It calls for an embargo on Iraq's oil exports, an embargo on imports to Iraq, and a halt to all arms and other military supplies for Iraq."
" British Ambassador Crispen Tickell told reporters later that he detected ``strong support, with the exception of one member, for action and a vote tomorrow''."
" Speaking of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, Canadian Ambassador L. Yves Fortier declared, ``This madman must be stopped''."
' Cuban envoy Ricardo Alarcon said Cuba would vote for sanctions against Iraq only if the council imposed sanctions on South Africa for occupying Namibia, Israel for occupying Palestinian territories and the United States for invading Panama.'
" In Kuwait, the Iraqi-installed provisional government, in a statement carried by the Iraqi News Agency, told other countries to refrain from taking ``punishing measures'' against it or Iraq."
" The provisional government said countries ``have to remember they have interests and citizens in Kuwait''."
" Kuwait's U.N. Ambassador Mohammad Abulhasan told reporters that the Iraqi-installed government was employing ``pure blackmail'' by saying it could not ensure the safety of foreigners if their governments support sanctions."
' In Aspen, Colo., British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher renewed her call for the United Nations to apply a total economic embargo against Iraq unless it withdraws immediately from Kuwait.'
" ``Iraq's invasion of Kuwait defies every principle for which the U.N. stands."
' If we let it succeed, no small country can ever feel safe again.'
" The law of the jungle takes over,'' she said, in remarks at the Aspen Institute."
' The U.N. role in the Iraq-Kuwait crisis assumed increasing importance after divided Arab nations cancelled an emergency summit on the invasion.'
" On Thursday, the Security Council condemned Iraq's invasion, demanded immediate and unconditional troop withdrawal, and threatened to impose sanctions if Iraq did not pull out."
" Sunday's session was scheduled after weekend meetings of the council's five permanent members _ the United States, the Soviet Union, China, Britain and France _ and between the United States and representatives of the Non-Aligned Movement."
' They are the nations with the power to veto proposals.'
' The United States contends that stiff sanctions by a united international front are necessary to punish Iraq and to force it to withdraw from Kuwait, which was invaded Thursday .'
' AP900806-0077'
' AP-NR-08-06-90 1340EDT'
' u i PM-Iraq-Kuwait 4thLd-Writethru a0553 08-06 1162'
' PM-Iraq-Kuwait, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0553,1197'
' Iraq Prepares for Attack; Turkish Oil Pipeline Closed'
' LaserPhoto AMS2, BON1-2'
" Eds: INSERTS 2 grafs after 4th pvs, `Saudi Arabia'... to UPDATE with reports carrier battle group within striking distance of gulf, U.S. rapid deployment force dispatched."
" Pickup 5th pvs, `In other...'"
' By SALAH NASRAWI'
' Associated Press Writer'
' BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)'
' Ruling party members said today that the government, fearing a U.S. air attack, was distributing automatic weapons to tens of thousands of supporters and preparing to evacuate the Iraqi capital.'
" A boycott of Iraqi oil forced Baghdad today to close one of two pipelines in Turkey that were pumping the bulk of Iraq's exported oil, Turkish officials said."
' A British official said Iraqi troops rounded up American and British visitors in Kuwait and taking them to Iraq.'
' The Foreign Office spokesman said most were passengers from a British Airways flight stranded in Kuwait since the Iraqi invasion Thursday.'
" ``There is no evidence that they are in any way in trouble,'' the official said."
' Saudi Arabia was reported reinforcing its troops along the Kuwaiti border following concerns Iraq may try to invade it.'
' Pentagon sources said the USS Independence and its carrier battle group are now on station in the Arabian Sea, a position that would allow it to launch fighter planes into the Persian Gulf region.'
' Gulf-based diplomats said soldiers from the American rapid deployment force, formed to react to crises in the Middle East, had been dispatched to the area.'
' In other developments: _The new Kuwait government installed by Iraq hinted it might take hostages or seize property of nations that take punitive measures against Iraq.'
' _Iraqi President Saddam Hussein said the 100,000 soldiers who invaded Kuwait began to pull back Sunday.'
' President Bush said Iraq was lying.'
' _Oil prices jumped more than $3 a barrel on news Europe and Japan were joining the embargo of Iraqi oil.'
' Stocks slumped worldwide.'
' _Hospital officials said at least 300 Kuwaiti and Iraqi soldiers were killed during the invasion.'
' In London, Kuwaitis arriving on a special plane said 700 Kuwaitis died.'
' The embargo of Iraqi oil grew over the weekend to include Japan and the European Community.'
" Along with the United States, they bought more than half Iraq's exported oil, with most of it pumped through Turkey."
' An official of the state-run Turkish pipeline company BOTAS said pumping stopped at one of the two Turkish pipelines at 5 p.m. Iraq reduced flow in the second, wider, pipeline to 70 percent of capacity, they said.'
' There was no comment from Iraq.'
' The two pipelines pump Iraqi crude from Kirkuk oil fields in northern Iraq to a terminal at the northeastern tip of the Mediterranean.'
' They carry 70 million tons of crude annually, providing the outlet for the major share of Iraqi exports.'
' The BOTAS official said all the countries participating in the embargo purchase their Iraqi crude from the Turkish outlet.'
' Iraq also exports oil through a Saudi Arabian pipeline and via tankers in the northern Persian Gulf.'
' A Foreign Office spokesman said today as saying a total of 366 people had been assembled by Iraqi troops in Kuwait, mostly passengers from a stranded British Airways flight.'
' They were being transported by bus to the Iraqi border.'
' Baghdad did not give any reason for its action.'
' Immediately after the invasion Thursday, 11 Americans were rounded up by Iraqi troops.'
' They turned up safe in Baghdad.'
' The new Iraqi-installed foreign minister of Kuwait, Lt.'
" Col. Walid Sa'oud Mohammed Abdullah, warned against further sanctions in a statement broadcast Sunday by Iraqi radio."
" ``Countries that resort to punitive measures against the provisional free Kuwait government and fraternal Iraq should remember that they have interests and nationals in Kuwait,'' he said."
' Iraqi soldiers invaded Kuwait after complaining that its violation of OPEC production quotas was driving down world crude prices, lowering Iraqi oil revenues.'
' Saddam also accused Kuwait of stealing oil from a field that includes land both sides claim.'
" The respected Middle East Economic Survey reported today that Kuwait's oil export facilities had been shut down."
" It also said there was considerable doubt Saudi Arabia, with the world's largest oil reserves, would be willing to make up the potential world oil shortage."
' Kuwait and Iraq together account for one-fifth of the 23.5 million barrels produced daily by the 13 OPEC nations.'
' Tensions remained high in the region; a U.S. official said in Washington that Iraqi troops massed on the Kuwaiti-Saudi border were apparently digging in.'
' An American technician at a secret Saudi Arabian base said the kingdom had sent 200 to 300 tanks toward its border with Kuwait.'
' Oil industry sources in Saudi Arabia reached by telephone from Bahrain said Saudi troops were entering the region of Khafji, near the border.'
' Residents reached by telephone reported intense air activity near the Saudi airport overnight.'
' The Washington Post reported today that Egypt was mobilizing some elements of its armed forces to assist Saudi Arabia in the event of an invasion.'
' U.S. officials said there was no indication Iraqi troops were preparing to invade Saudi Arabia.'
' But Bush sent Defense Secretary Dick Cheney to the kingdom to confer with its leaders, and the White House said Secretary of State James A. Baker would go this week to Turkey.'
" Saadi Mehdi Saleh, the Iraqi army commander, was quoted by the Al-Iraq newspaper as saying tens of thousands of volunteers had joined the army to defend what he called ``Iraq and the revolution in Kuwait''."
" Americans, he was quoted as saying, ``should understand that the people of the great leader Saddam Hussein cannot be frightened''."
" Local members of the ruling Baath party said preparations were under way to evacuate all of Baghdad's 4 million people to camps outside the city."
' They were being told that the U.S.'
' Air Force might attack or that Israel might attack with chemical or nuclear weapons.'
' The party members also said the party had distributed guns, mainly AK-47 automatic rifles, to tens of thousands of people around the country.'
' State radio said Saddam had ordered the formation of 11 new Iraqi army divisions, expected to generate 100,000 troops.'
" The Arab world's most formidible military force is already estimated at 1 million men."
' At a border checkpoint 30 miles south of the Iraqi port city of Basra, dozens of tanks, armored personnel carriers and trucks carrying hundreds of soldiers crossed back into Iraq on Sunday.'
' But thousands of Iraqi soldiers remained behind in Kuwait, controlling major government buildings, commerical centers and ports.'
' Diplomats in the region said a new Kuwaiti army fanned out through Kuwait.'
' The force comprises about 80,000 troops, mostly Iraqis.'
' The nine-member Kuwaiti military government, announced by Iraq on Saturday, remained a mystery.'
' No photographs of the named leaders have been shown and 12 reporters brought to Kuwait by the Ministry of Information could not locate any of them.'
' Kuwaiti diplomats said they were all Iraqis, including a son-in-law of Saddam, a charge official Iraqi media denied .'
' AP900806-0095'
' AP-NR-08-06-90 1619EDT'
' u i PM-UN-Iraq 4thLd-Writethru a0632 08-06 0479'
' PM-UN-Iraq, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0632,0489'
' U.N. Security Council Approves Sanctions Against Iraq'
' Eds: INSERTS 2 grafs after 3rd pvs to UPDATE with Bush reaction.'
" SUBS 6th pvs, `The sanctions'... with one graf to ADD that sanctions apply to all U.N. nations."
" Pickup 7th pvs, `The vote...'"
' By VICTORIA GRAHAM'
' Associated Press Writer'
' UNITED NATIONS (AP)'
' The U.N.'
' Security Council today overwhelmingly approved sweeping trade and military sanctions against Iraq, including a ban on oil purchases, to punish Baghdad for invading Kuwait.'
' The vote was 13-0, with two abstentions by Cuba and Yemen on the 15-member council, which adopted the sanctions resolution proposed by the United States.'
" It said Iraq had launched an armed attack against Kuwait and usurped the authority of Kuwait's legitimate government."
" The sanctions were intended to force Iraq to withdraw its troops from Kuwait and the resolution bans ``the import into their territories of all commodities and products originating in Iraq or Kuwait and exported there from after the date of this resolution''."
" President Bush praised the decision and called for ``full and total implementation of these sanctions, ruling out nothing at all''."
" He told reporters at the White House: ``The will of nations around the world will be to enforce these sanctions''."
' It was the third time in its 45-year existence that the world body had voted sanctions against a member state.'
' The last time was 1967 when the Security Council voted similar, comprehensive sanctions against the white minority government of Rhodesia.'
' An arms embargo against South Africa still is in effect.'
' The sanctions are legally binding for all member nations, although past council resolutions have often been ignored or flouted.'
' The United Nations has no enforcement mechanism but later could call on members to take military action against Iraq or impose a blockade.'
' The vote followed similar sanctions imposed on Iraq by much of the West, including the United States, Japan and the European Community.'
' The Soviet Union and China said they would halt arms shipments to Iraq.'
" In a statement carried by the Iraqi News Agency on Sunday, the Iraqi-installed military government of Kuwait warned other nations not to take ``punishing measures'' against it or Iraq."
" The provisional government said countries ``have to remember they have interests and citizens in Kuwait''."
' The U.N. role in the Iraq-Kuwait crisis assumed increasing importance after divided Arab nations canceled a weekend emergency summit on the invasion.'
" In an emergency session just hours after Thursday's invasion, the Security Council condemned Iraq's invasion, demanded immediate and unconditional troop withdrawal, and called for negotiations between Iraq and Kuwait."
' The council threatened to impose sanctions if Iraq did not comply.'
' The council includes the five permanent members with veto power _ the United States, Britain, China, France and the Soviet Union.'
' The 10 non-permanent members are: Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Ethiopia, Finland, Ivory Coast, Malaysia, Romania, Yemen and Zaire .'
' LA080290-0233'
' 256241'
' August 2, 1990, Thursday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 5; Late Final Desk'
' 537 words'
' IRAQ TRAMPLES KUWAIT;'
' TROOPS SEIZE CAPITAL, PALACE; EMIR FLEES;'
' 200 KUWAITIS SAID KILLED OR INJURED; U.S.'
' AID SOUGHT'
' From Associated Press'
' KUWAIT'
" Iraq's powerful army claimed victory today in its lightning invasion of this small, oil-rich kingdom."
" Tank-led troops quickly seized the ruler's palace and government buildings, and the emir fled to Saudi Arabia, Kuwaiti officials said ."
" Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the Iraqis occupied all government buildings in the capital and were moving south toward the country's oil facilities."
' He appealed for U.S. military intervention .'
' "The Iraqis have occupied all of Kuwait"! a Kuwaiti government official shouted in a telephone interview.'
' Diplomatic sources in the Persian Gulf estimated that more than 200 Kuwaitis were killed or wounded .'
' The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein claimed that it invaded at the request of revolutionaries who had already staged a coup and established "the provisional government of free Kuwait".'
' Kuwait and U.N. diplomats labeled the coup report a farce .'
' Baghdad television said Iraq could withdraw its forces within days or weeks, depending on how quickly the situation stabilized .'
' The assault followed two weeks of tension between Kuwait and Iraq, caused by Iraqi accusations that Kuwait stole oil from a disputed border area.'
' Saddam also accused Kuwait of exceeding OPEC production quotas, thus driving down the price of oil, a major Iraqi revenue source .'
' In recent days, diplomats said Iraq had massed more than 100,000 troops at the border.'
" Kuwait's entire armed forces has 20,300 soldiers ."
' It was the first time in modern history that an Arab nation had invaded another and taken over its government .'
" Kuwait's army was no match for Iraq, battle-hardened after eight years of war with Iran ."
' Diplomats said about 350 Iraqi tanks wheeled into the capital a few hours after crossing the border 40 miles away at dawn.'
' Witnesses said the bombardment of ports and military airports by artillery and the air force was vicious .'
" The invaders surrounded the palace of Kuwait's ruler, Sheik Jabbar al Ahmed al Sabah."
' Residents said the palace was seized after about two hours of heavy artillery barrages .'
" Diplomats said Sheik Fahd al Ahmed al Sabah, one of the emir's brothers, was killed while trying to defend the palace ."
' There were about 50 tanks around the palace and the neighboring American Embassy, residents said .'
' The al Sabah family has ruled the city-state for almost 250 years.'
' The Kuwaiti ambassador said the leaders were safe in Saudi Arabia .'
' Operating from an unknown location, al Ahmed\'s government responded to the formation of the provisional government by stating: "Kuwait is Kuwait to its people, led by the emir, Sheik Jabbar, and his Crown Prince Sheik Saad.'
' God preserve them from all harm" .'
' For its part, the provisional government announced through Baghdad\'s official Iraqi News Agency that it was dissolving Parliament and would hold "free and honest elections" at a future date .'
" Kuwait's land and sea borders were closed, as was the airport ."
' RELATED STORIES, PICTURES: Pages 2,3, BACK PAGE'
' Military Forces Compared:'
' Total Troops:'
' Iraq: 1,000,000'
' Kuwait: 20,300'
' Main Battle Tanks:'
' Iraq: 5,500'
' Kuwait: 275'
' Combat Aircraft:'
' Iraq: 513'
' Kuwait: 36'
' Ships:'
' Iraq: 51'
' Kuwait: 46'
' Source: International Institute for Strategic Studies'
' Map, IRAQI INVASION OF KUWAIT: Iraqi troops and tanks swept into Kuwait late Wednesday night and within hours had taken control of Kuwait City, the capital and only sizable town.'
' AP / Los Angeles Times'
' Wire'
' LA080690-0111'
' 258363'
' August 6, 1990, Monday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 6; Late Final Desk'
' 502 words'
' IRAQIS SEIZE WESTERNERS;'
' HUNDREDS ROUNDED UP DURING SWEEP OF KUWAIT HOTELS;'
' U.N. COUNCIL VOTES BROAD SANCTIONS'
' From Times Wire Services'
' Iraq struck back against the West today, rounding up hundreds of foreign nationals in Kuwait, as the U.N.'
' Security Council overwhelming approved sweeping trade and military sanctions against Iraq to punish it for invading the emirate .'
' The Iraqi invaders scoured hotels looking for some of the thousands of Westerners based in Kuwait or caught by the invasion.'
' More than 1 million foreigners live and work in Kuwait .'
' Several hundred Britons, Americans and West Germans were grabbed in the hotels, and some were taken to Iraq, the West German and British foreign ministries said .'
' Britain said Baghdad had given no reason for detaining 366 people, most of them passengers from a British Airways flight stranded at Kuwait airport by the invasion .'
' The U.N. sanctions, which included a ban on oil purchases, came on a vote of 13 to 0, on the 15-member council.'
' Cuba and Yemen abstained on the resolution, which was proposed by the United States .'
" The Iraqi-installed Kuwait government had earlier warned foreign countries that they should not forget their citizens in Kuwait while heaping on economic punishments, and today's roundup appeared to be a reaction against the sanctions ."
' Iraqi troops rolled into its New Jersey-sized neighbor Thursday, conquering the capital and moving south toward the Saudi Arabian border .'
' Persian Gulf oil sources said today that they had seen Saudi troops moving north toward the Kuwaiti frontier near the oil port of Khafji, but the Saudis denied that they had sent reinforcements to the border .'
' Iraqi authorities today told Turkey\'s state-run pipeline company that one of the twin pipelines that carry Baghdad\'s oil through Turkey will be closed "for reasons of marketing," officials said .'
" World oil prices soared to their highest level in more than four years today as more countries joined the attempt to strangle Baghdad's economy and force it to withdraw its invasion troops ."
" Iraq's oil revenues totaled more than $11 billion last year."
' It has been pressing for higher oil prices to rebuild an economy damaged by the 1980-88 war with Iran and settle foreign debts of up to $80 billion .'
' One of the reasons Iraq gave for invading Kuwait was Kuwaiti reluctance to slow its flow of oil and push oil prices higher, but it was Iraqi oil that had slowed today .'
' "There are very few tankers loading Iraqi oil at Yumurtalik," a senior Turkish government official said, referring to the export jetties on the Turkish side of the Mediterranean Sea .'
' In Baghdad, President Saddam Hussein ordered drills for millions of people in case mass evacuations were needed .'
" He warned his nation's 17 million people to be on alert for possible U.S. or Israeli attacks."
' The United States has warned Iraq against any attack on Saudi Arabia, and President Bush has said all options are open for the United States .'
' Hundreds of Kuwaitis took to the desert to flee into Saudi Arabia, their children and a few belongings crammed into four-wheel-drive vehicles .'
' RELATED STORIES: Pages 2,3'
' Wire'
' WSJ900803-0023'
' 900803-0023 .'
" The Iraqi Invasion of Kuwait: CIA Had Given Warning Of Iraq's Move on Kuwait"
' 08/03/90'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5'
' MDEST'
' EXECUTIVE (EXE) FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)'
' WASHINGTON  U.S. intelligence officials had been sounding alarms in recent days about a possible Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.'
' Emphasizing that the Central Intelligence Agency wasn\'t surprised by the Iraqi action, an agency spokesman said yesterday, "We provided policy makers with very useful and timely information on these events and we continue to do so."'
' Administration and congressional officials agree that the CIA did its job.'
' Since last week, President Bush had been warned by intelligence analysts that what originally looked like a military bluff was quickly turning into the kind of troop deployment that could be used to invade Kuwait or even Saudi Arabia.'
' Central Intelligence Agency Director William Webster even hand-delivered certain fresh details on the Iraqi buildup to National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft.'
" Among the assessments he conveyed was a conclusion that, by this week, President Saddam Hussein's force would be capable of penetrating Kuwait or Saudi Arabia."
' The agency lacked hard evidence of an intent to invade, intelligence officials say.'
' But as the buildup grew, the CIA became more alarmed, partly because Mr. Hussein is so unpredictable, and partly because, unlike many other Arab leaders, he has been known to carry out his threats .'
