' AP900121-0039'
' AP-NR-01-21-90 1518EST'
' r i AM-India-Unrest 01-21 0627'
' AM-India-Unrest,0649'
' 21 Reported Killed in Kashmir Violence'
' By ARUN JOSHI'
' Associated Press Writer'
' JAMMU, India (AP)'
' Troops battled mobs of Moslem separatists in the Kashmir city of Srinagar over the weekend, and at least 21 people were killed and 100 wounded before the fighting subsided Sunday night, police said.'
' Fifteen demonstrators were shot and killed Sunday, while six were fatally wounded late Saturday night, according to Mohammad Nomani, inspector general of Srinagar police.'
' Militants defied a curfew and continued trading intermittent shots with government forces on Sunday, officials said.'
' Witnesses, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the death toll was at least 30, but that figure could not be confirmed.'
' Nomani, speaking by telephone from Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu-Kashmir state, said the fighting tapered off late Sunday afternoon as heavy rains lashed the city.'
' But gunfire echoed through the deserted streets until evening, one resident said, requesting anonymity.'
" ``They (the troops) are shooting at anything moving,'' he said."
" ``It is a disastrous situation out there,'' said Ramesh Kaul, a hotel receptionist in Srinagar."
' At least 47 people have been killed in Jammu-Kashmir state since the beginning of the year in violence triggered by Moslem militants demanding independence or union with Islamic Pakistan.'
' The separatists, led by the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front, have often attacked government offices and police officials.'
" ``The situation is tense and dangerous,'' the state's chief secretary, Moosa Raza, said in Jammu, the state's winter capital 95 miles south of Srinagar."
' Nomani said the police dispatched 25 cars with loudspeakers into the city, to appeal to people to obey the curfew.'
' The cars were escorted by heavily armed troops from the paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force, he said.'
' A 24-hour curfew was imposed Saturday in a bid to quell escalating violence and mass anti-India demonstrations in Srinagar and nearby towns.'
" But late Saturday, crowds defied curfew and surged into downtown Srinagar chanting ``Indian dogs go back''! and ``Long live Pakistan''! local reporters said."
' They said the paramilitary troops opened fire, killing two people instantly and injuring 14.'
' Four of them died later.'
' As news of the shootings spread, thousands of Moslem men poured out of their homes, the reporters said.'
' They said protesters recited verses from the Koran, the Moslem holy book.'
" Some took up a chant urging ``mujahedeen,'' or Islamic holy warriors, to prepare for the final sacrifice in a showdown with India's Hindu-dominated government."
" Jammu-Kashmir's former state chief minister, Farooq Abdullah, issued a statement accusing authorities of letting loose a ``reign of terror and repression''."
" Abdullah's Moslem-dominated National Conference Party is closely aligned with the Congress Party of Rajiv Gandhi, the arch political foe of Prime Minister V.P. Singh."
" Abdullah's government resigned Friday to protest the appointment of Singh's nominee as the state's new governor and imposition of governor's rule which amounts to tighter federal control over the state."
" The curfew order was one of the first acts of the new governor, Jagmohan, a tough administrator who had cracked down on Kashmiri militants during an earlier stint as the state's governor."
' Jagmohan, a Hindu who uses one name, took office Friday.'
' Parts of Kashmir region are claimed by both India and Pakistan.'
' The dispute started when the state was partitioned between the two countries when they gained independence from Britain in 1947.'
" Srinagar's 800,000 people are moslty Moslem, as is a majority of population in the Kashmir region."
' The Jammu region is predominantly Hindu.'
' India has often accused Pakistan of aiding the Kashmiri militants, a charge Pakistan has denied.'
' Jammu-Kashmir is the only state with a Moslem majority in predominantly Hindu India.'
' Moslems make up 64 percent of the state population of 5 million.'
" Nationwide, Moslems comprise 12 percent of India's 880 million people, while Hindus comprise 82 percent ."
' AP900130-0010'
' AP-NR-01-30-90 0051EST'
' r i PM-Kashmir 01-30 0789'
' PM-Kashmir,0818'
' Kashmir: A Tourist Paradise Becomes a War Zone'
" Eds: Also in Tuesday AMs report; In 10th graf, ``We are ''... Jagmohan uses only one name ."
' By DILIP GANGULY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
" Exotic Kashmir, a tourist paradise of houseboat hotels and Mogul gardens from whose name the English made ``cashmere,'' has become a war zone of separatism and religious enmity."
' Military jeeps carry senior government officials and civil servants around Srinagar in these dangerous days, as soldiers and paramilitary troopers try to stop a campaign of violence by Moslem separatists in the Kashmir Valley.'
' Intelligence officer M.K. Kaul commands one of the jeeps.'
" At the beginning of a trip through the city of 1 million people, he turned to the four soldiers in the jeep's rear seats and ordered: ``Check your weapons."
" Be ready to fire''."
' Kaul settled into the front seat, a 9mm pistol in his right hand.'
" ``These are bad days,'' he murmured."
' ``These die-hard terrorists can attack from anywhere.'
" To his men, he said: ``Shoot them if you see them''."
' On Monday, an around-the-clock curfew was lifted from 5 a.m. until noon and stores opened to crowds of customers.'
' Soldiers in sandbagged bunkers, armed with light machine guns, guarded main intersections.'
" A spokesman for the Jammu-Kashmir state government said the situation was peaceful and ``absolutely normal'' in Srinagar, the state's largest city."
' At least 72 people have been killed since the crackdown began Jan. 20 in an effort to curb attacks on government officials and buildings.'
' Most of the dead have been Moslem militants shot by Indian troops.'
" ``We are neither fighting a war nor trying to suppress any popular movement,'' said Jagmohan, governor of Jammu-Kashmir, the only state in predominantly Hindu India with a Moslem majority."
" ``We are fighting a handful of terrorists who are determined to create a law and order problem,'' said Jagmohan, a Hindu with a reputation for toughness."
' Other officials in Kashmir say privately the situation is critical, perhaps the most serious threat India has faced in 42 years of independence from Britain.'
" ``It looks like everyone here has turned into a fundamentalist with firm belief that the day is not far off when they will become independent,'' a state police officer said."
' Kashmir was a separate kingdom, ruled by a Hindu maharajah, when Britain relinquished colonial rule on Aug. 15, 1947, and the subcontinent was partitioned on religious lines into India and Pakistan.'
' The Hindu king opted to join India, not Pakistan, and the dispute over Kashmir has exacerbated relations since.'
' Pakistan took the western part of Kashmir and India the eastern.'
' Each accused the other of forcible occupation.'
' They have fought wars over Kashmir and the border question remains unresolved.'
' U.N. observers are stationed on the truce line and the two sides occasionally trade gunfire.'
' Officials will not say how many reinforcements have been sent to the Kashmir Valley since Jan. 20, but reports from various sources indicate 30,000-and 40,000 soldiers and paramilitary troops have been deployed.'
" It is the valley's heavily Moslem population that tilts the sectarian scale in Jammu-Kashmir state."
" Of the state's nearly 6 million people, 64 percent are Moslems and 32 percent Hindus."
' Most Hindus live in the southern Jammu area.'
' Srinagar has 150 mosques.'
" ``This is the best breeding ground for Moslem fundamentalism,'' said a federal official who helps coordinate the new security measures."
' Nearly every mosque has a loudspeaker to summon the faithful to prayer _ and, more recently, to exhort listeners to defend their faith and Kashmir.'
" ``The residents are constantly bombarded with Islamic sermons and are reminded that fighting a `jihad' (Islamic holy war) is the most sacred duty of every Moslem,'' the federal official said, on condition of anonymity."
" Electricity was cut off in the city Friday, which was both the Moslem sabbath and India's national Republic Day on India's Republic Day, but many mosque loudspeakers continued operating because militants connected them to car batteries."
' Intelligence reports suggest the government has an advantage because the separatists are not united.'
' The most powerful group is the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front, but there are several others, including the Allah Tigers, Hezb-e-Mujahed Hezb-e-Islami.'
' India claims the fundamentalists get money and weapons from Pakistan.'
' The Pakistanis deny it.'
' Jagmohan, the governor, insists the main issue in Kashmir is economic development, not separatism.'
" ``The people do not want violence or the so-called independent Kashmir,'' he said."
' ``The need of the hour is development.'
' Let more tourists come.'
' Let new schools be built.'
" Let new hospitals come up''."
' As he spoke, military officers waited in the next room to discuss a new strategy to crush rebellion in what the tourist brochures call Paradise.'
' Right now, Paradise looks lost, at least temporarily .'
' AP900208-0116'
' AP-NR-02-08-90 1331EST'
' r i AM-India-Kashmir 02-08 0581'
' AM-India-Kashmir,0598'
' Militants Kill Paramilitary Soldiers as Violence Continues in Kashmir'
' By DILIP GANGULY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
' Moslem militants armed with automatic rifles shot and killed two unarmed paramilitary soldiers on Thursday in Srinagar, the flashpoint of a violent separatist campaign, officials said.'
" Witnesses said a cigarette vendor also was killed in the attack, which occurred outside the vendor's kiosk in the Chanpora suburb of the city."
' A bystander was injured, said the witnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity.'
' The deaths brought to 81 the number of people killed since Jan. 20 in clashes between security forces and Moslem militants fighting for secession of the Moslem-dominated Kashmir region from Hindu-majority India.'
' Most victims have been protesters shot while defying a curfew imposed Jan. 20 when government forces launched a crackdown.'
" A senior police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said militants exploded bombs in a government building and a government-run bank in Srinagar's outskirts Thursday, causing severe damage."
' There were no casualties.'
' The official also blamed militants for a fire that broke out in a downtown shopping center.'
' No casualties were reported in the blaze.'
' Security was strengthened across Srinagar after the incidents.'
' New roadblocks were set up and more paramilitary troops were deployed on the streets, the official said.'
' Some soldiers patrolled in trucks while others perched with machine guns on the sides of roads.'
' A curfew that was to have begun at 6 p.m. instead took effect in the afternoon in three areas of the city after the shootings.'
" The two paramilitary Border Security Force officers were shot with Chinese-designed AK-47 rifles from close range as they walked from their camp toward the cigarette kiosk, 100 yards from the camp's gate, said Ashok Patel, inspector-general of the Border Security Force."
' He said the men were unarmed and were not in uniform when attacked.'
' It was the first reported slaying by Moslem militants of paramilitary troops.'
' The Border Security Force, known to be a more disciplined and tougher force that the state constabulary, is normally deployed on international borders but has been increasingly used to put down the Kashmir secessionist movement.'
' State police began preparations to counter violence Friday, the Moslem sabbath.'
" On past sabbath days, speeches have been broadcast from mosques urging people to fight for Kashmir's independence."
' Gov. Jagmohan, known to be a tough administrator who ordered the Jan. 20 crackdown, on Thursday appealed for peace in Kashmir, the Himalayan valley once popular for its gardens, lakes and apple orchards.'
" ``Let us impress once again on our young brothers to see the futility of the cult of guns and understand the magnitude of all-round misery that it has caused,'' he said in a letter released by the state government."
' Jagmohan, a Hindu who uses only one name, wrote the letter to the father of a Moslem youth who was killed in a bomb explosion in a shopping complex on Wednesday.'
' Kashmir was divided between India and Pakistan after the two countries were partitioned on gaining independence from Britain in 1947.'
" Srinagar and the surrounding areas of the valley became part of Jammu-Kashmir state, India's only predominantly Moslem state."
" Sixty-four percent of the state's 5 million people are Moslems, but nationwide, Moslems make up 12 percent of India's population of 880 million."
' Kashmiri militants had earlier campaigned for union with Pakistan, which claims Kashmir because of its predominant Moslem population, but now they demand independence and the status of a neutral country .'
' AP900212-0061'
' AP-NR-02-12-90 0917EST'
' u i PM-Kashmir 1stLd-Writethru a0484 02-12 0661'
' PM-Kashmir, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0484,0680'
' Precede ISLAMABAD'
' Pakistani Troops Said To Fire On Indian Security Forces'
' Eds: LEADS thruout to UPDATE with Indian claim that Pakistanis fired on Indian troops, details.'
' Changes byline.'
' No pickup .'
' By VIJAY JOSHI'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NEW DELHI, India (AP)'
' Pakistani troops fired on Indian security forces who stopped a mob of Pakistani protesters from storming across the border into disputed Kashmir, officials said today.'
' At least three demonstrators were killed Sunday night, a Defense Ministry spokesman said in Islamabad.'
" Pakistan's state-run TV said the Indian guards killed as many as six."
' The trouble started after Indian border guards opened fire on hundreds of Pakistanis who tried to cross a cease-fire line separating Pakistan-controlled Kashmir from the Indian-held region.'
' A spokesman for the Indian Defense Ministry said Pakistani troops then fired about 200 rounds from light and medium weapons at Indian border posts in the Uri sector.'
' Indian forces returned fire and the exchange continued for about half an hour, the spokesman said.'
' No one was hurt.'
' A Pakistani official in Islamabad denied the accusations.'
" ``Pakistani military authorities and the Foreign Secretary are in touch with Indian authorities to remove the misunderstanding,'' said Additional Foreign Secretary Khalid Mahmood in Islamabad."
" Pakistan's top diplomat in New Delhi, Bashir Babar, was summoned to India's Foreign Ministry on Sunday and today and apprised of India's concern over the events, an Indian government spokesman said."
' A fluid 840-mile cease-fire line separates the Indian and Pakistani Kashmirs.'
' Pakistan and Indian twice have gone to war over Kashmir, in 1948 and again in 1965.'
' On Feb. 5, at least one person was killed and 12 wounded when Pakistani mobs tried to cross the cease-fire line near Jammu, 95 miles to the south.'
' The two demonstrations at the cease-fire line were to express support for Moslem militants who are fighting for independence for the Moslem-dominated state from the predominantly Hindu India.'
" On Sunday, the Pakistani mob retreated when soldiers of India's paramilitary border security force opened fire, said the Indian spokesman who refused to be identified."
" ``The mob returned a second time by which time it had become slightly dark,'' he said."
" ``That is when the Pakistani troops opened fire''."
' A Pakistani spokesman, who also refused to be identified, said Pakistani army patrols repulsed a mob of some 1,200 demonstrators.'
' Small groups broke away from the crowd and slipped into the Indian-held territory, he said.'
' An official of the Indian border security force, which normally patrols the border, said the Indian army today took control of the cease-fire line.'
' Some men in the intruding crowd were armed with guns which they fired occasionally, he said.'
" ``It was becoming very difficult, our troops had to open fire,'' he said."
" Farouk Haider, vice-president of the militant Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front that is leading the uprising, said in Islamabad after the Indian firing that ``the situation is very confusing''."
' Thirty-one people were wounded in the shooting, Haider said.'
' Five were in critical condition in a hospital in Muzzafarabad, the capital of Pakistan-controlled Kashmir, he said, adding he knew of only one death.'
' The 40-year-old conflict over Kashmir flared Jan. 20 after a government crackdown and the arrest of 250 suspected militants.'
' Most of them were subsequently released, but the arrests sparked widespread violence.'
' At least 85 people have been killed since the crackdown began.'
' Most of the victims have been curfew-breaking protesters shot by security forces in Srinagar.'
' Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu-Kashmir, has been the center of the secessionist movement that has turned violent in recent years.'
' The Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front had earlier campaigned for union with Islamic Pakistan but has in recent years demanded independence and the status of a neutral country.'
" About 64 percent of Jammu-Kashmir's 6 million people are Moslems, making it the only Moslem majority state in predominantly Hindu India's 25 states."
" Nationwide, Moslems make up 12 percent of India's 880 million population."
' Hindus comprise 82 percent .'
' AP900220-0089'
' AP-NR-02-20-90 1237EST'
' u i PM-Pakistan-India 02-20 0425'
' PM-Pakistan-India,0439'
' Indian and Pakistan Troops Exchange Fire'
' By JOHN POMFRET'
' Associated Press Writer'
' MUZZAFFARABUD, Pakistan (AP)'
' Pakistani and Indian troops exchanged fire for several hours today after a Pakistani soldier became the first military casualty on the troubled Kashmir border, officers and a western observer said.'
' The soldier was shot in the leg Sunday at a ceasefire line, several miles from the village of Chaukothi, officials said on condition of anonymity.'
" They said there were no reports of casualties from today's firefight at the line, which divides Kashmir between Pakistan and India."
' The nations have twice gone to war over the Himalayan state, in 1948 and again in 1965.'
' The former princely state was divided between the two nations after British colonial rule ended in 1947.'
' Relations between the neighbors have become increasingly strained since Jan. 20 when Indian troops launched a military crackdown on Moslem separatists in turbulent Jammu-Kashmir.'
" The militants want India's only majority Moslem state to either become independent or join Pakistan."
" Jammu-Kashmir is an aberration in India, where 82 percent of the country's 880 million people are Hindus."
' The leaders of both countries have tried to soothe tempers in the dispute and have said another war over the region is unlikely.'
' However, Pakistani forces have now sealed off the border area at Chaukothi, forbidding civilians from entering the area.'
' The border crossing was the scene of a bloody confrontation on Feb. 11 between Indian troops and Pakistani students, who were marching in solidarity with activists in Indian-held Kashmir.'
' Indian troops killed three students and wounded several during that confrontation, a Pakistan defence ministry spokesman said.'
' The two armies also exchanged gunfire for about 30 minutes before calm was restored.'
' A Paksitan army captain, who said he witnessed the firefight, said unlike the occasional shootings in the past, Indian soldiers appeared to be aiming at Pakistani troops.'
" The western observer said Sunday's shooting of the Pakistan soldier appeared to back up that assertion."
" In another sign of increased tensions, Pakistani and Indian officers are no longer accompanying United Nations' military observers as they pass through the borders."
" ``It is not a normal situation,'' the officer said."
" ``The border is extremely tense''."
" Pakistan officials said they were taking steps to quell what one official called ``war fever'' on the Pakistan side."
" ``We are trying to tie the people down,'' said Amir Alan Khan, a retired lieutenant colonel who heads Kashmir's civil defence."
" He said hundreds of retired soldiers have approached him ``to ask for orders'' to fight the Indian army ."
' AP900224-0094'
' AP-NR-02-24-90 1452EST'
' r i AM-Kashmir 02-24 0558'
' AM-Kashmir,0579'
' Tens of Thousands March to Moslem Shrine Demanding Freedom'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
' Tens of thousands of people chanting ``Freedom!'
" Freedom''! trekked to a Moslem saint's shrine Saturday to campaign for the secession of Kashmir from India, witnesses and pro-separatist activists said."
' At least three people died in two separate incidents on Saturday in Kashmir, the center of the four-decade-old separatist campaign, witnesses said.'
' The deaths brought to 109 the number of people killed since Jan. 20 in the latest round of the secessionist violence and the government crackdown.'
' Meanwhile, the president of the Pakistan state of Kashmir said in an interview Saturday that Kashmiris there had begun smuggling arms across the border to Moslem insurgents fighting for independence from India.'
" President Abdul Qayyum, speaking to a reporter who traveled to Pakistan's Kashmir, said the people of his state also had been sheltering insurgents since India launched the military crackdown in its state of Jammu-Kashmir last month."
" In India's Kashmir, the 600-year-old shrine of Shiekh Nuruddin Wali at Charift Sharief, 20 miles northwest of Srinagar, became a sea of humanity as Moslem men, women and children poured in from Srinagar and nearby towns."
' Vehicles stopped 10 miles from the shrine as people thronged the roads, said witnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity.'
" Supporters of the militants said they went to the shrine to seek the saint's blessings to ``liberate'' Kashmir from India."
' In Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu-Kashmir state, residents were told by Moslem militants to put their clocks back by 30 minutes to correspond with the Pakistan standard time.'
' The militants, led by the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front, are demanding either independence for Jammu-Kashmir, the only Indian state dominated by Moslems.'
' Groups of young Moslem men sat at street corners, stopping passers-by and telling them to adjust their watches.'
' At least six fights broke out when people refused to comply, said witnesses who spoke on condition of anonymity.'
' On Friday, at least 200,000 people marched to the office of the United Nations Military Observers Group in Srinagar, demanding a plebiscite in Kashmir, police said.'
' Witnesses claimed that more than 600,000 people took part.'
' The U.N. group is posted to maintain a cease-fire line drawn between Indian- and Pakistani-held Kashmir after a 1948-49 war over the region.'
' Residents, speaking on condition of anonymity, said security forces fatally shot two men shouting anti-Indian slogans at Khrew, 15 miles southeast of Srinagar.'
' In Srinagar, suspected Moslem militants shot and killed Ashok Kumar, a Hindu government employee, witnesses said, also speaking on condition of anonymity.'
' Kumar was suspected to be a police informer.'
' India routinely accuses Pakistan of arming, training and supporting the militants.'
' The government in Islamabad denies the charge but says the Kashmiri people have a right to self-determination.'
" An AP reporter who traveled to Pakistan's Kashmir last week said state-run banks in the region have begun collections to help the uprising."
" Signs in dozens of banks called for donations for ``a holy war against India''."
" Naveed Hussain, a government spokesman in Pakistan's Kashmir, said in an interview that $5,000 had been raised in a week and that the money would be used to train Kashmiri militia groups in territory held by Pakistan."
' Kashmir was divided between India and Pakistan after the two countries were partitioned following the end of British colonial rule in 1947 .'
' AP900307-0146'
' AP-NR-03-07-90 1738EST'
' u i AM-India 1stLd-Writethru a0609 03-07 0603'
' AM-India, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0609,0618'
' Moslems Ambush Truck Carrying Security Forces'
" Eds: INSERTS two grafs after 7th `At least'... to UPDATE with parties to send delegation to Kashmir; pickup graf 8 `Jagmohan said'...."
' One name for Gov. Jagmohan is cq .'
' By DILIP GANGULY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
' Moslems blew up a truck carrying security forces Wednesday, killing three soldiers in the few hours the government relaxed a curfew designed to stop the Kashmiri separatist uprising, officials said.'
' In separate incidents, militants shot and killed a Moslem they said was a police informer and a Moslem died after he was caught in an exchange of fire between militants and security forces, officials said.'
' Also Wednesday, Moslem snipers fired on security forces in three parts of Srinagar during a five-hour relaxation of curfew, said Gov. Jagmohan of Jammu-Kashmir state.'
' There were no casualties, he said.'
' The curfew was relaxed from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. to allow people in the city of 1 million to shop for food and other essentials.'
' An around-the-clock curfew was imposed Friday after security forces the day before shot and killed 49 Moslem demonstrators marching into Srinagar to take part in a pro-independence rally.'
' At least 1 million Moslems demonstrated to demand independence for the predominantly Moslem state; India is predominantly Hindu.'
' Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu-Kashmir, is the center of the separatist movement.'
' At least 171 people have been killed in Kashmir since a government crackdown on the separatist movement began on Jan. 20.'
" Leading national parties decided Wednesday to send a ``high-powered delegation'' to Srinagar, according to the Press Trust of India news agency."
' It did not name the members, but it said they would go Thursday.'
' The decision was taken at the end of a daylong multiparty meeting on Kashmir called by Prime Minister V.P. Singh.'
" A joint statement after the meeting said ``despite their ideological and political differences, (the parties) were one in defending the unity and integrity of the country,'' the news agency reported."
' Jagmohan said the truck was driving around Srinagar distributing food to troops on street corners when it was blown up by Moslem militants.'
' He gave no further details of the attack.'
' The attacks came amid government claims that security forces arrested at least 12 leaders of the Moslem group Hezbul Mujahedeen.'
' Jagmohan said the militants, from Srinagar and the border towns of Baramulla and Kupwara, have been arrested since Sunday.'
' Hezbul Mujahedeen is one of 30 militant groups fighting for secession.'
' It is believed the second most powerful independence group after the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front.'
" ``We are going to hit hard at anti-national elements, there is no way they can get away with what they are doing,'' Jagmohan said."
" ``It may take a month, six months, maybe a year, but ultimately these anti-national elments are going to be neutralized''."
' Jagmohan, a Hindu, was appointed the state governor of Jammu-Kashmir on Jan. 18 in an attempt by the government to control the unrest.'
' Kashmir has been a problem for more than four decades following the 1947 partition of British colonial India into predominantly Moslem Pakistan and the mostly Hindu India.'
' Jammu-Kashmir, then a princely state, chose to merge with India.'
' Pakistan protested, claiming the territory because of its predominantly Moslem population.'
' The two countries have twice gone to war over the territory.'
' The Kashmir portion of Jammu-Kashmir is mostly Moslem, while the southern Jammu segment is predominantly Hindu.'
" Overall, about 65 percent of the state's 6 million people are Moslem."
" Nationwide, Moslems make up 12 percent of India's 880 million people and Hindus account for 82 percent ."
' AP900324-0081'
' AP-NR-03-24-90 1408EST'
' r i AM-India-Kashmir 03-24 0350'
' AM-India-Kashmir,0364'
' Moslem Militants Kill Five, Kidnap One'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
' Moslem militants killed five people who opposed their fight for independence from predominantly Hindu India and kidnapped a former legislator, officials said Saturday.'
' At least 195 people, mostly Moslem demonstrators, have been killed in the northern state of Jammu-Kashmir since Jan. 20 when the government launched a crackdown on the separatists.'
' State officials said four of the five people killed Friday and Saturday were Moslems.'
' They were identified as a deputy police superintendent; the 73-year-old local leader of the Communist Party of India; the grandson of another prominent Communist leader; and a man accused of being a police informer.'
' The fifth victim was a civilian, the sources added, speaking on condition of anonymity.'
' It was unclear if he was Hindu or Moslem.'
' The former state legislator, Mir Mustafa, was pulled out of his car at gunpoint Saturday near his home in Badgam, 12 miles west of Srinagar, officials said.'
' Srinagar has been a focal point of the fighting between government troops and separatists.'
' Family members and highly placed sources in the government of Jammu-Kashmir said no group has claimed responsibility for the abduction and no demands were issued.'
' Mustafa was an independent member of the state legislature.'
' The governing body was dissolved in January when the federal crackdown was ordered.'
' In December, Mustafa helped negotiate a prisoner exchange in which the kidnapped daughter of Home Minister Mufti Mohammad Saeed was swapped for five prominent members of the radical Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front.'
' The front is one of several Moslem militant groups waging a campaign of bombings and assassinations to press demands for the independence of Kashmir, a part of Jammu-Kashmir state.'
' Jammu-Kashmir is the only Moslem-majority state in India.'
' The secession movement has been simmering since 1947, when the state of Kashmir was divided between India and Moslem Pakistan.'
' The eastern part of the state is governed by India.'
" The western slice of Kashmir is under Pakistan's control."
' The two countries went to war twice over Kashmir, and their armies still face each other along the disputed frontier .'
' AP900330-0086'
' AP-NR-03-30-90 1236EST'
' r i AM-India-Kashmir 03-30 0476'
' AM-India-Kashmir,0499'
' Moslems Mourn Slain Militant Leader, Vow to Continue Secession Fight'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
' A leader of the Moslem separatist movement in Kashmir tried to hurl a grenade into a police bunker Friday but was killed in a volley of police gunfire.'
' Tens of thousands of Moslems gathered later for the funeral.'
' Comrades fired into the air and vowed to carry on the fight for independence from India.'
' Ashfaq Majid Wani, 28, was a leader of the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front, a leading separatist group.'
" He was the front's area commander in Srinagar."
' Police said he tried to throw the grenade at a police bunker in downtown Srinagar while riding by on a motor scooter.'
' The grenade went off after officers opened fire with automatic weapons.'
' Three other people died in the melee, the police said.'
" Hours later, thousands of residents gathered near Wani's house in an attempt to hold a funeral procession in defiance of a government curfew."
" But soldiers and police prevented the procession and took Wani's body to a burial ground in a government ambulance escorted by a police jeep."
" Women wailed and beat their chest as Wani's body was taken out of the ambulance and placed near the grave."
" Men shouted: ``Ashfaq's blood will usher independence''! A group militants fired pistols and automatic rifles in the air."
' Witnesses estimated the crowd at 40,000.'
' The firing continued intermittently for more than one hour until the body wa interred at 5 p.m.'
" ``We will carry forward Asfaq's mission, which was to gain independence,'' said one militant leader holding a Soviet-designed Kalashnikov rifle."
' He refused to give his name.'
' The secessionist movement has been alternately simmering and flaring since 1948, when the Hindu ruler of the old princely state of Kashmir, faced with the option of merging either with India or Islamic Pakistan, chose India.'
' The two countries then were one year old, having been partitioned from the British colonial India.'
' India and Pakistan have fought two wars over Kashmir.'
' They left the region split into the Pakistan-held territory called Azad Kashmir, or free Kashmir, and the Indian-controlled Jammu-Kashmir state.'
' Jammu-Kashmir is the only state in India that is dominated by Moslems.'
" Most of India's 880 million people are Hindu."
' At least 233 people have been killed in Kashmir since Jan. 20 when the government launched a crackdown on increasing violence by Moslem separatists.'
' Official sources said Indian soldiers shot and killed 10 Moslem separatists Friday who were trying to slip into Pakistani-held territory of Kashmir.'
' They said the men were in a group 22 that opened fire on the soldiers.'
' The 12 surviving militants were arrested, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity.'
' Also Friday, police fatally shot a curfew violated in Srinagar.'
' The body of a suspected police informer was found in Srinagar, and officials said militants claimed responsibility .'
' AP900406-0164'
' AP-NR-04-06-90 2036EDT'
' u i AM-India-Kashmir 04-06 0286'
' AM-India-Kashmir,0295'
' Educator, Businessman Kidnapped in Kashmir, Six Militants Killed'
' By QAISER MIRZA'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
' Moslem extremists abducted a leading businessman and an educator Friday and threatened to kill them, a day after authorities killed six militants crossing into Pakistan for arms and training, police said.'
' Roads were blocked around Srinagar, where the hostages were seized, and soldiers tightened security around the Kashmir Valley, where the government launched a crackdown Jan. 20 on the Moslem separatist movement.'
' A telephone caller told a local reporter the abductors were also holding a third hostage and all three men would be killed within 24 hours of a Monday afternoon deadline for releasing three jailed militants.'
' The caller claimed to speak for the Students Liberation Front, a branch of the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front fighting for autonomy in the predominantly Moslem state.'
' India itself is overwhelmingly Hindu.'
' Police sources, who demanded anonymity, and the telephone caller both identified the new kidnap victims as Vice Chancellor Mushir ul-Haq of Kashmir University and L.M. Khela, general manager of Hindustan Machine Tools Co.'
" The caller said ul-Haq's private secretary also was being held hostage, but that could not be confirmed."
" Moslem separatists had warned Indian government officials to leave Jammu-Kashmir state before April or ``face the consequences''."
' Police said the border violence took place in Kupwara district, where at least 20 separatists tried to sneak into neighboring Pakistan to receive military training and buy weapons.'
' No details were available.'
' India says Pakistan trains and arms the militants in Kashmir, at the far northern tip of India.'
' Pakistan denies it.'
' India and Pakistan have fought two wars over the region since 1947, when both nations won independence from Britain .'
' AP900524-0130'
' AP-NR-05-24-90 1646EDT'
' u i AM-Kashmir 05-24 0393'
' AM-Kashmir,0409'
" Pakistan's Leader Accuses India of Kashmir Genocide"
' By SHARON HERBAUGH'
' Associated Press Writer'
' ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP)'
" Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto on Thursday accused India of waging ``genocide'' in secession-minded Kashmir and of trying to start a war with Pakistan to deflect attention."
' Her remarks raised tensions further between India and Pakistan, which have been feuding over Indian-controlled Kashmir.'
' The two countries, which have fought wars over the area in 1949 and 1965, have in recent weeks again built up their military forces near the common border.'
" ``India is indulging in genocide,'' Ms. Bhutto said at a news conference Thursday after returning from a weeklong tour of eight Moslem countries in the Middle East and North Africa."
' ``Islamic scholars are being killed and innocent people are being slaughtered.'
" This is deplorable,'' said the prime minister."
' She was referring to the assassination of Maulvi Mohammad Farooq, the top Moslem cleric in Indian Kashmir.'
' During his funeral procession Monday, Indian forces shot to death 58 people.'
" Ms. Bhutto returned late Wednesday from visits to Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, North Yemen, Egypt, Libya and Tunisia, a high-profile diplomatic offensive to drum up support for Pakistan's stand on the Kashmir issue."
" Hindu-dominated India accuses Pakistan of arming and training Kashmiri militants fighting for secession of Jammu-Kashmir, India's only state with a Moslem majority."
' Pakistan, which is dominated by Moslems, denies the Indian charge.'
' Since the Indian government ordered a crackdown on the militants in late January, more than 400 people have been killed.'
' During her trip abroad, Ms. Bhutto said all her host countries agreed that India and Pakistan needed to find a lasting political settlement of the 43-year-old dispute.'
' However, she added, ``If subjected to aggression, we would have the full support of the Arab Islamic nations.'
" Pakistan, I was assured, would never be left alone''."
" ``We believe the threats to peace are grave,'' she said."
" ``We cannot rule out the possibility of an armed conflict, but we do not believe war is inevitable,'' she told reporters."
' Ms. Bhutto said she opposes an independent Kashmir.'
' She said it was not envisioned when India and Pakistan gained independence in a 1947 partition.'
' The prime minister again called for talks between Pakistan and India.'
' She also said a neutral body should look into the charges made by both sides.'
' India has already rejected both suggestions .'
' AP900625-0090'
' AP-NR-06-25-90 1318EDT'
' r i AM-India-Kashmir 06-25 0227'
' AM-India-Kashmir,0232'
' Militants Kill Four of Family in Kashmir'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
' The bodies of four Moslems were found in a Kashmir town Monday, five days after they were kidnapped by Moslem militants agitating for secession from India.'
' The bodies, which had bullet wounds, were found in the town of Sopore about 35 miles northwest of the Kashmir capital of Srinagar, said police officials speaking on condition of anonymity.'
' Anonymous callers to local newspapers and news agency offices said the four were killed by the Hezbul Mujahedeen because they were police informers.'
' The Hezbul Mujahedeen is one of more than a dozen Moslem organizations fighting for independence of the Kashmir valley from India.'
' Police officials also reported the death of one soldier in a militant ambush of an army convoy in the district of Baramulla, northwest of Srinagar.'
' At least three soldiers were injured, they said.'
' The deaths raise to 630 the number of people killed since security forces began a crackdown on the Moslem movement on Jan. 20.'
' The Kashmir valley, most of which falls in the Indian state of Jammu-Kashmir, is predominantly Moslem.'
' Jammu-Kashmir is the only Indian state with a Moslem majority.'
" Moslem militants earlier had demanded union with Pakistan, the Islamic nation on India's western border."
' But, of late, they have been demanding independence and the status of a neutral nation .'
' AP900718-0069'
' AP-NR-07-18-90 0944EDT'
' r i PM-India-Kashmir 07-18 0405'
' PM-India-Kashmir,0416'
' India Imposes Direct Rule in Kashmir'
' By DILIP GANGULY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NEW DELHI, India (AP)'
' The government today imposed direct federal rule in Kashmir, where Indian security forces are battling to put down a rebellion by Moslem separatists.'
' The action follows the killing Tuesday of at least 29 Moslem militants by Indian security forces.'
' In the Pakistani capital of Islamabad, meanwhile, India and Pakistan opened negotiations today aimed at repairing relations threatened by the rebellion in the disputed northern region.'
' Relations between Pakistan and India worsened in January when Indian soldiers cracked down on Moslem militants in Kashmir who are seeking independence from India or union with Pakistan.'
' At least 792 people have been killed in Kashmir since then.'
' India has accused Pakistan of arming and training the militants, a charge Pakistan has denied.'
' Before direct federal rule was imposed today on Jammu-Kashmir state, it was administered temporarily by a governor, a federal representative, since Jan. 18.'
' The announcement of federal rule reflected the belief that Jammu-Kashmir state was too unstable to be run by an elected local government.'
' On Tuesday, at least 29 militants were killed by Indian security forces in Kashmir, the Moslem-dominated northern part of Jammu-Kashmir state and the center of the secessionist campaign.'
' Officials, who cannot be identified under briefing rules, said 21 militants were killed in a battle with the Border Security Force in Poonch, 400 miles northwest of New Delhi.'
' Hours later in the same area, troops killed eight militants who slipped across the border from Pakistan, said the officials.'
' The guards also arrested four militants and seized 14 automatic rifles, two machine guns and two rocket launchers, the officials said.'
' Indian officials maintain that Kashmiri militants regularly cross over to Pakistan through the border and return by the same route after reciving arms training.'
' Pakistan denies it is training or helping the militants, but calls the separatist struggle a fight for self-determination.'
' India and Pakistan have fought two previous wars over Kashmir, in 1948 and 1965.'
' Both were won by India.'
" About 65 percent of Jammu-Kashmir's 6 million people are Moslems, making it India's only Moslem majority state."
" Nationwide, Moslems make up 12 percent of India's 880 million people."
' Hindus make up 82 percent of the population.'
' Kashmiri separatists earlier demanded union with Pakistan, an Islamic country, but they have recently been fighting for total independence and the status of a neutral country .'
' AP900724-0090'
' AP-NR-07-24-90 1204EDT'
' r i PM-India-Kashmir 07-24 0310'
' PM-India-Kashmir,0322'
' Indian Guards Kill 20 Moslem Militants in Kashmir'
' SRINAGAR, India (AP)'
' Indian frontier guards shot and killed 20 Moslem militants and arrested nine others after they sneaked into India-held Kashmir from Pakistan, a senior official said today.'
' The militants were killed late Monday at Kupwara, 56 miles north of Srinagar during gunbattle with Indian guards, said the Kashmir official, who cannot be identified under standing briefing regulations.'
' India, alarmed by a spurt in Moslem separatist activities in Kashmir, has stepped up border patrol to stop alleged infiltration of separatists from Pakistan.'
' A total of 80 Moslem militants have died in frontier incidents in the past week.'
' Indian officials maintain that Kashmiri militants regularly cross over to Pakistan through the porous border and return by the same route after reciving arms training in Pakistan.'
' Pakistan denies it is training or helping the militants, but says it supports the separatism, terming it a fight for self determination.'
' The Kashmir official said the fighting erupted when the militants fired at Indian border guards after crossing over from Pakistan.'
' Indian guards seized 22 AK-47 rifles, three machine guns and 1,425 rounds of ammunitions.'
' Kashmiri separatists are fighting for independence of the Moslem dominated Jammu-Kashmir from the predominantly Hindu India.'
' At least five more Moslem separatists were killed in three separate incidents across Kashmir today.'
' The deaths brought the total number of people killed to at least 863 since Jan. 20, when the government launched a crackdown on the separatists.'
" About 65 percent of Jammu-Kashmir's 6 million people are Moslems, making it India's only Moslem majority state."
" Nationwide, Moslems make up 12 percent of India's 880 million people."
' Hindus make up 82 percent of the population.'
' Kashmiri separatists earlier demanded union with Pakistan, an Islamic country, but have recently been fighting for total independence and the status of a neutral country .'
' AP900821-0092'
' AP-NR-08-21-90 1348EST'
' r i AM-India-Pakistan 08-21 0479'
' AM-India-Pakistan,0497'
' Border Clashes Continuning, Says Prime Minister'
' By DILIP GANGULY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' NEW DELHI, India (AP)'
' The army on Tuesday dispatched tanks and troop reinforcements to the frontier with Pakistan, where soldiers from the two nations have been fighting recently, officials and witnesses said.'
" Prime Minister V.P. Singh told Parliament that Indian armed forces were ``fully prepared to effectively deal with any eventuality''."
' Indian and Pakistani troops clashed in a remote border area in the disputed Kashmir region Monday.'
' Singh, who is also defense minister, said exchange of fire also occurred Tuesday.'
' In Pakistan, a Defense Ministry spokesman, who cannot be identified under briefing rules, said Tuesday that Indian and Pakistani soldiers exchanged artillery fire in the Kel sector along the cease-fire line dividing Kashmir into Pakistani and Indian regions.'
' He said there were no casualties among Pakistani soldiers.'
' The Pakistani official also said that on Monday and Tuesday, Indian soldiers fired on Pakistani civilians traveling on a mountain road, injuring four people.'
' He also said Indian soldiers fired on an ambulance and a bus.'
' There was no report from India on the alleged firing.'
' Despite the tension, officials from both sides said the incidents did not appear to be serious.'
" ``There is no cause for any undue concern since we trust that these localized incidents will be contained and the situation defused,'' United News of India quoted Singh as saying in the Parliament."
' Singh said directors of military operations from both countries were in touch.'
' He did not elaborate.'
' The Pakistani official said: ``This is not a serious situation.'
" It's just in one sector."
' It could be just a local incident.'
" We don't know what it will lead to."
" We'll just have to wait and see''."
' India and Pakistan have gone to war twice over Kashmir, in 1965 and 1971.'
' Both sides claim Kashmir, which has been divided into Indian and Pakistani sectors.'
' Tensions over Kashmir flared again this summer.'
' India accuses Pakistan of supporting a Moslem secessionist movement in the Indian sector by providing arms and training to Moslem militants.'
" Pakistan, an Islamic state, denies the charge but says it will back any movement for self-determination by Kashmir's people."
" Jammu-Kashmir state is the only one of India's states with a Moslem majority."
' At least 1,034 people have been killed in the Kashmir valley since New Delhi cracked down on the secessionist movement on Jan. 20.'
' Military officials in Jammu, the summer capital of India-held Kashmir, said Tuesday that tanks and troops reinforcements were dispatched to the border areas.'
' At least 20 tanks and 30 trucks with soldiers left their quarters at Kaluchak and Baridrahamna for the frontier, said witnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity.'
' Indian military officials said the additional troops were sent to Rajauri and Poonch sectors, which were the scenes of fierce battles in the wars of 1965 and 1971 .'
