' AP900422-0032'
' AP-NR-04-22-90 1415EDT'
' r a AM-SpaceShuttle 04-22 0560'
' AM-Space Shuttle,0577'
" Discovery's Astronauts Back for Second Try"
' By MARCIA DUNN'
' AP Aerospace Writer'
' CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)'
" Discovery's five astronauts returned Sunday for a second attempt to launch the shuttle with NASA's most valuable and celebrated payload, the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope."
' Discovery is scheduled to lift off at 8:31 a.m. EDT Tuesday.'
" ``We feel very confident that things are going to go well this time,'' said Discovery's commander, Air Force Col. Loren J. Shriver."
" ``We're going to come out OK on Tuesday morning and, if not, we'll just keep trying until we do."
" That's kind of the name of the game here,'' Shriver said."
' NASA test director Mike Leinbach said Sunday that the countdown was proceeding smoothly and the shuttle appeared to be in perfect condition.'
' The countdown got under way Saturday afternoon.'
' A faulty power unit forced the first launch attempt to be scrubbed four minutes before liftoff April 10.'
' The unit was replaced with a new one, which tests showed to be fine.'
" ``Hopefully, we'll get the shuttle off the pad this time,'' Leinbach said."
" A 70 percent chance of favorable weather was expected at launch time, with low clouds being the main concern, said the Air Force's Ed Priselac, shuttle weather officer."
' A weak cold front from the north was expected to pass through the area by Monday night.'
' The outlook is considerably better for Wednesday and Thursday, Priselac said.'
" As Discovery's astronauts arrived from Johnson Space Center in Houston early Sunday afternoon, the shuttle Columbia was being transported to a launch pad 1.6 miles from Discovery."
' It is only the second time both shuttle launch pads at Kennedy Space Center have been occupied simultaneously.'
' The first time was in January 1986; 16 days after Columbia lifted off, Challenger exploded.'
' Columbia commander Vance Brand said he does not believe the National Aeronautics and Space Administration is moving too fast with his shuttle.'
" NASA expects to launch Columbia with an astronomical observatory called Astro no earlier than May 16, one week later than planned because of Discovery's two-week delay."
" ``In some cases, it could be a problem'' having shuttles on both launch pads, Brand said."
" ``In this particular case, everything's fitting together''."
' NASA has until Saturday to get Discovery off the ground.'
" After that, all launch attempts must be halted for eight days so Hubble's batteries can be recharged."
" The six nickel-hydrogen batteries will power Hubble from the time it is disconnected from Discovery's electrical system until its two energy-collecting solar panels take over in space."
" Discovery's payload bay was sealed late Saturday night, drastically reducing the risk of contamination to the telescope's finely polished 94.5-inch mirror."
" Discovery will aim for an altitude of 380 miles, the highest a shuttle has ever gone, so the telescope can be placed in its proper orbit far above Earth's distorting atmosphere."
" During Hubble's 15-year journey through space, astronomers expect to look back to nearly the beginning of time and solve some of the universe's most perplexing mysteries."
' Astro will measure ultraviolet radiation undetected by Hubble and thus provide additional targets for the telescope.'
" The $100 million observatory also will focus during Columbia's nine-day mission on Comet Austin, believed to be on its first trip through the solar system."
' Both Hubble and Astro were scheduled for launch in 1986, but were delayed by the Challenger accident .'
' AP900424-0048'
' AP-NR-04-24-90 0636EDT'
' u a PM-SpaceShuttle 4thLd-Writethru a0484 04-24 0727'
' PM-Space Shuttle, 4th Ld - Writethru, a0484,730'
' Discovery Readied for Launch With Space Telescope'
" Eds: Top 4 grafs with all astronauts aboard, pickup 5th bgng ``The $1.5 billion,'' inserts new graf after 8th bgng ``Columbia, which'' to include that Hubble has been delayed since 1983; minor editing changes below ."
' LaserPhoto covering'
' By MARCIA DUNN'
' AP Aerospace Writer'
' CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)'
' Five astronauts boarded Discovery today for a second try at sending the Hubble Space Telescope into orbit to scan the outermost reaches of the universe for clues to the beginning of time.'
" ``Astronomers are starting to tingle again in anticipation of what the Hubble will be able to accomplish,'' said Lennard Fisk, head of NASA science activities."
' Air Force forecasters said there was a 90 percent chance the weather would be favorable for launching the shuttle at the scheduled time of 8:31 a.m. EDT.'
" More than a half million gallons of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen were pumped into the space ship's fuel tanks after midnight."
' The astronauts, wearing bright orange flight suits, climbed into the crew cabin just as dawn was breaking over the Kennedy Space Center.'
" The $1.5 billion telescope, NASA's costliest cargo, will give astronomers ``a new set of eyes and ears that we don't have,'' said William Lenoir, head of NASA's space flight program."
" ``It's going to change our perspective altogether."
" I can't say what we're going to learn, but I'll be astounded if we don't learn many new things''."
" Discovery was aiming for an altitude of 380 miles, the highest a shuttle has ever gone, so the telescope can be placed in its proper orbit far above Earth's distorting atmosphere."
' It is the 35th shuttle mission.'
' Columbia, which journeys into space next month with the Astro observatory, sat on a launch pad 1.6 miles from Discovery, only the second time both pads have been occupied; the first was in 1986 just before the Challenger explosion.'
' Hubble has been waiting to take its place in space since 1983, delayed by technical problems and the Challenger accident.'
" The latest postponement occurred April 10, when Discovery's launch was scrubbed four minutes before liftoff because of a faulty power unit on the shuttle."
' The mood at the Kennedy Space Center was considerably less festive than during the first launch attempt, when hundreds of astronomers gathered with their families.'
" The day after launch, mission specialist Steven A. Hawley will use the shuttle's mechanical arm to lift the 24,250-pound telescope into space."
' Veteran spacewalkers Bruce McCandless II and Kathryn Sullivan will assist if a problem develops.'
' Discovery will follow Hubble from 40 miles away for two days until after its lens cap is opened, exposing the finely polished 94.5-inch mirror to starlight.'
' Hubble is not expected to start providing scientific data by satellite for a month or more after liftoff.'
' However, NASA said it will release its first image _ an open star cluster in the constellation Carina _ a week after launch.'
' In addition to the $1.5 billion cost of Hubble, $500 million has been spent on spare parts, astronaut training and computer software to operate the instrument.'
' The European Space Agency contributed $250 million for 15 percent of the viewing time.'
' NASA estimates it will cost $200 million a year to operate and maintain the telescope in space.'
' During its 15-year working lifetime, the telescope will provide astronomers with 10 times better resolution and 25 times more sensitivity than ground-based observatories.'
' As a result, they will be able to study stars and galaxies so distant their light has been traveling toward Earth for 14 billion years.'
' Astronomers hope to learn whether the universe was created 15 billion years ago as believed and uncover some of the mystery surrounding galaxies, black holes and quasars.'
' Hubble also is expected to shed light on how and when the universe might end.'
' The telescope is named for the late astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, who discovered during the 1920s that the universe is expanding.'
' His work gave rise to the Big Bang theory that the universe was created by a tremendous explosion.'
' In addition to Hubble, Discovery carries a human skull filled with sensors to measure the space radiation that astronauts receive.'
" It is the skull's third trip into space."
' The shuttle is to end its five-day mission with a landing at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif .'
' AP900424-0096'
' AP-NR-04-24-90 1402EDT'
' u a AM-SpaceShuttle Bjt 04-24 0848'
' AM-Space Shuttle, Bjt,870'
' Hubble Out of this World _ At Last'
' With LaserPhotos'
' By HARRY F. ROSENTHAL'
' Associated Press Writer'
' CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)'
' Seven years late, the Hubble Space Telescope is where it belongs, out of this world and in search of others so distant that they may have been formed at the beginning of time.'
' Less than five hours after it rode into space aboard the shuttle Discovery on Tuesday, the $1.5 billion telescope sent its first test radio signal.'
' At the sign of life, applause and cheers erupted in Mission Control in Houston.'
" ``As near as we can tell, everything looks perfect,'' said astronaut Steve Hawley from the shuttle."
" Hawley's job on Wednesday will be to drop the telescope overboard for a 15-year stay in space."
' Discovery, trailing an arc of white smoke into a brilliant blue sky, carried the silver-colored telescope to an orbit 380 miles above Earth _ higher by 70 miles than any previous shuttle.'
' There the Hubble will stay to search for yet-unseen wonders of creation with instruments that can look 14 billion years backward in time.'
" ``Our window on the universe''!"
' NASA launch commentator George Diller exulted as the Discovery rose off its seaside launch pad.'
" ``It's a beautiful day to have Hubble Space Telescope in orbit instead of here on Earth like it's been for so many years,'' said NASA administrator Richard Truly."
" ``Hubble's in its element and I'm delighted''."
' The telescope was supposed to be launched in 1983, but technical problems and the Challenger accident delayed its deployment.'
' It suffered a further delay two weeks ago when the countdown was stopped at the four-minutes-to-go point because of a faulty hydraulic unit on the shuttle.'
' While it remained on Earth, the telescope cost $7 million a month to exercise and keep in readiness.'
' In its first day in space, that checkout and testing continued remotely under control of the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland.'
' On hand to watch the Discovery launching was a contingent of scientists who have hailed the Hubble as the greatest advance in astronomy since Galileo raised a small telescope to his eyes nearly 400 years ago.'
' Truly referred to the early-day astronomer when he was asked about the long delays in getting the telescope to its working station.'
" ``Somebody the other day said, `Who remembers the day that Galileo picked up his telescope to look at the stars'''? said Truly, a former shuttle astronaut."
" ``It doesn't matter what day we launch Hubble, it matters that we do it right''."
' The telescope is 43 feet long and 14 feet in diameter, about the size of a railroad tank car.'
' When it flies free, it will receive electrical power for its six scientific instruments from two wing-like solar arrays that extend outward on each side.'
' It is named after the late astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, who theorized that the universe was expanding and that the farther away a galaxy is, the faster it is traveling.'
' That gave support to the theory that a massive explosion _ the Big Bang _ created the universe 10 to 20 billion years ago.'
' The Hubble is expected to help provide the answer to two major questions: How old is the universe?'
' How big is it?'
' The telescope has two mirrors, one 94.5 inches in diameter, the other 12 inches.'
' Two of the instruments are cameras, two are spectrometers and one is a photometer.'
' In addition, the fine pointing system acts as a sixth instrument by providing precise measurement of distances.'
" On Wednesday, Hawley is to grapple the 12-ton telescope with the shuttle's mechanical arm, lift it out of the cargo bay, point it, and _ after a long checkout _ drop it overboard to orbit on its own."
' In the cargo bay, the telescope receives electrical power from the shuttle.'
' But the juice is cut when the instrument is lifted out and it will depend on internal batteries until the solar panels are extended to receive light from the sun.'
' Should the solar panels not deploy, mission specialists Bruce McCandless and Kathryn Sullivan will be standing by, partially dressed in space suits, ready to go into the open cargo bay to unfurl the arrays manually.'
" Discovery's launch was not without its problems."
' With 31 seconds left in the countdown, the computer that runs the final moments before liftoff refused to close a fuel valve and stopped the launch process.'
' The problem was overcome and the shuttle lifted off at 8:34 a.m. EDT, about three minutes late.'
' The shuttle is scheduled to land Sunday at 9:49 a.m. EDT at Edwards Air Force Base in California.'
" ``On the way uphill,'' as Commander Loren J. Shriver put it, the shuttle's windshield was splattered with ``several flecks of things''."
' He said the windshield was streaked by the debris and that it also was smeared when the spent booster rockets fell off during the climb to orbit.'
" The astronauts also had problems with their UHF radio circuit, and one of the ship's small rear thrusters was inoperative."
' Neither problem was considered serious .'
' AP900425-0198'
' AP-NR-04-25-90 2047EDT'
' r a AM-SpaceShuttle 3rdLd-Writethru a0742 04-25 0887'
' AM-Space Shuttle, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0742,0912'
' Balky Telescope Released into Space, Starts 15-Year Voyage'
" Eds: Subs the 24th graf, ``Wojtalik said...,' to RESTORE first reference to Wojtalik ."
' LaserPhoto HTN1,6,9'
' By MARCIA DUNN'
' AP Aerospace Writer'
' CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP)'
' After years of delay and a last-minute snag, the Hubble Space Telescope was freed from the shuttle Discovery on Wednesday and, glinting in the sunlight, drifted into orbit on its 15-year search for new worlds.'
" Mission specialist Steven Hawley released Hubble from the end of the shuttle's 50-foot-long mechanical arm after a delay in getting one of the telescope's solar wings unfurled."
" ``The first of NASA's great observatories is now on station at 330 nautical miles above the Earth,'' Mission Control's Jeffrey Carr said."
" ``The telescope really looked great as we flew away from it, and we sure hope it does good work,'' Discovery commander Loren J. Shriver said later."
' The $1.5 billion telescope was released at 3:38 p.m. EDT as the shuttle entered its 20th orbit of Earth, nearly two hours and one orbit later than planned.'
' The shuttle then backed away.'
" ``Thank you very much for the ride,'' said Mike Harrington, director of orbital verifications at Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md."
" Mission specialists Bruce McCandless and Kathryn Sullivan had been in the shuttle's airlock, ready to walk inspace to free the solar panel."
' That proved to be unnecessary.'
" ``Close but no cigar, but better for the Hubble that it went the way it did,'' Sullivan said."
' She and McCandless had trained for nearly five years to make such a rescue mission.'
" The first solar array unreeled from its mast at midday Wednesday as the shuttle passed 380 statute miles, or 330 nautical miles, above South America's eastern coast."
" It started providing power to the telescope's batteries, which otherwise had only eight hours of charge."
' Deployment of the starboard panel, however, was more troublesome.'
" It wouldn't budge when latches were first released, then moved about a fifth of its 39-foot length, and stopped again."
' A third attempt rolled the panel out all the way.'
" ``Houston, we see motion,'' Commander Loren J. Shriver reported."
" Hawley began the long process of releasing Hubble shortly after 7 a.m. EDT when he grasped it with Discovery's 50-foot-long mechanical arm and carefully hoisted the 12-ton telescope high above the shuttle."
' Hubble was taken off shuttle electrical power just before it was lifted out of the cargo bay and was operating on its own nickel-hydrogen batteries.'
" ``At one day, seven minutes into the flight of Discovery, Hubble is now on its own internal power,'' Carr said."
' ``The game has begun.'
' The race is on.'
" The clock is ticking''."
" Worries that the telescope's instruments would be starved for electricity eased after the first solar panel was stretched out."
' Television cameras aboard Discovery showed the first array as it was pulled from its reel slowly but steadily, the sun reflecting off the gold-colored panel and silvery telescope.'
' Discovery was 380 statute miles above Earth, 70 miles higher than any shuttle has ever flown.'
" The orbit was dictated by the need to put the telescope above the Earth's distorting atmosphere."
" Discovery's five astronauts were awed by the view."
" ``I'd like to pass on the quote of the day from the on-board astronomer something to the effect that the big marble sure looks far away today,'' Shriver said of Hawley."
' Astronomers have waited seven years for Hubble to take its place in space.'
' The telescope originally was scheduled for launch in 1983, but technical problems and the Challenger explosion pushed it back.'
" The mission was delayed another two weeks when a faulty power unit on Discovery forced the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to halt the first launch attempt four minutes before April 10's scheduled liftoff."
' On Tuesday, Discovery finally blasted into space, transporting Hubble out of this world and in search of others.'
" The telescope's 10-foot aperture door is to be opened Friday, exposing the finely polished 94.5-inch mirror to starlight."
' Discovery was following Hubble in case the door does not open properly.'
' If a problem develops, McCandless and Sullivan will be prepared once again to walk in space.'
' Fred Wojtalik, Hubble project manager, said the telescope would be tested Thursday for its ability to maneuever before the aperture door is opened.'
" ``We want to be in full control so we don't ever endanger the Hubble by putting the aperture door close to the sunlight,'' he said."
' The telescope cannot focus into the sun because of the sensitivity of its five instruments.'
' If all goes well, the crew will land Sunday at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif.'
' NASA expects to release its first image from the telescope _ of an open star cluster in the constellation Carina _ on Tuesday.'
' Data will follow in a month or two.'
' Astronomers hope to look back to almost the beginning of the time, studying stars and galaxies so distant their light has been traveling to Earth for 14 billion years.'
' They expect to determine precisely how and when the universe was formed, currently estimated at 15 billion years ago.'
' The telescope is named for the late American astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, who discovered during the 1920s that the universe was expanding.'
' He also was responsible for helping to form the Big Bang theory of creation .'
' AP900426-0135'
' AP-NR-04-26-90 1520EDT'
' u a PM-SpaceShuttle 5thLd-Writethru a0630 04-26 0996'
' PM-Space Shuttle, 5th Ld - Writethru, a0630,1023'
" Communications Outages Mar Hubble's First Day, But Problem Finally Solved"
' With PM-Hubble-Amateurs, Bjt'
' Eds: LEADS with 11 grafs to UPDATE with problem solved.'
" Picks up 13th graf pvs, `The telescope, embarking...'."
" SUBS 21st graf, `Discovery and...', to delete now-redundant reference to Greenbelt, Md ."
' By LAURA TOLLEY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP)'
' Ground controllers at the Goddard Space Flight Center finally made contact today with the two main antennas on the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope after trying for more than six hours to lock on.'
" Applause erupted in the Hubble control center in Greenbelt, Md., as the glitch that marred Hubble's first full day in space was solved."
" ``We have confirmation that we have achieved communication with the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite through the high-gain antenna system,'' said NASA's Dave Drachlis."
' Engineers had said all along they believed the antennas were working all right and that the problem was in incorrectly pointing either the satellite or the TDRS, an orbiting communications satellite that acts as a switchboard.'
" In the successful attempt, they nearly doubled the width of the antennas' beams to take in more territory, from a sweep of 6.2 degrees to 10.8 degrees."
" The telescope's low-gain antennas, which receive and transmit information at a much slower rate and can be used in emergencies, were working well."
' Space shuttle Discovery was 46 miles away, available to remedy certain problems.'
' The outage was not a problem for which space walkers would have been summoned.'
' The five astronauts were otherwise busy making pictures of storms over Texas from their 380-mile-high perch, and doing experiments.'
' Steve Terry, director of a team calibrating various aspects of the telescope, said the first outage was caused by human error and was not a serious problem.'
' It began between 1 and 1:30 a.m. EDT and lasted 45 minutes to an hour, he said.'
" The second failure occurred at 6:44 a.m. when controllers attempted to send a signal to the telescope's two high-gain antennas through the TDRS."
" ``This time it was a pointing problem,'' said Jim Elliott, a Goddard spokesman."
" ``It's a new spacecraft and we think inexperience dealing with it was the cause''."
" The telescope, embarking on a 15-year search for new worlds, was released from the shuttle's cargo bay Wednesday after a last-minute snag that almost sent two astronauts on an emergency spacewalk."
" Mission Control awakened the crew early today with a loud rendition of the song ``Shout,'' a fraternity house favorite."
' ``Good morning, Discovery.'
" I guess you're awake after that song,'' said Kathy Thornton, shuttle communicator."
' ``There are a lot of happy people down here.'
" We saw a great deploy yesterday and Hubble had a good night while you were asleep''."
" ``We appreciate the good words from everybody,'' replied Discovery Commander Loren Shriver."
" After Wednesday's deployment, Shriver gently backed Discovery away from the telescope and put the shuttle through a series of maneuvers, the last one completed this morning, to ``park'' Discovery in orbit 46 miles behind Hubble."
" ``The telescope really looked great as we flew away from it, and we sure hope it does good work,'' Shriver said Wednesday."
" ``Well, it sure is now, Loren, and thanks for all the great work you've done,'' replied Mission Control."
" ``Galileo is real proud of you''."
" Scientists have hailed the Hubble _ NASA's most expensive unmanned spacecraft _ as the greatest advance in astronomy since Galileo raised a small telescope to his eyes nearly 400 years ago."
' Discovery and its five astronauts will follow the telescope while controllers at the Goddard center make sure Hubble is operating properly, such as responding to directional commands.'
" The next milestone is Friday, when the telescope's 10-foot aperture door is to be opened, exposing the finely polished 94.5-inch mirror to starlight."
' Then on Tuesday, NASA expects to release the first image from the telescope: an open star cluster in the constellation Carina.'
' Data will follow in a month or two.'
" If the aperture door doesn't open properly, Discovery could return to the telescope so two astronauts could perform a spacewalk to fix it."
' Hubble project manager Fred Wojtalik said the telescope would be tested today for its ability to maneuver before the aperture door is opened.'
" ``We want to be in full control so we don't ever endanger the Hubble by putting the aperture door close to the sunlight,'' he said."
" Too much light could damage the telescope's sensitive instruments."
" On Wednesday, mission specialist Steve Hawley used the shuttle's 50-foot robot arm to gently grasp the 12-ton telescope and hoist it from the cargo bay."
" One of the telescope's solar arrays unreeled from its mast as expected and started providing power to the telescope's batteries, which otherwise had only eight hours of charge."
' But there was trouble with the second panel.'
" It wouldn't budge when the latches were released, and then moved about a fifth of its 39-foot length and stopped again."
' The panel rolled all the way out on the third attempt.'
' By the final attempt, astronauts Bruce McCandless and Kathryn Sullivan were in their space suits in the airlock, 30 minutes away from taking tools in hand and going on an outer-space maintenance call.'
' Wojtalik said the cause of the problem is unknown.'
' The 8-hour procedure was performed 380 miles above Earth, 70 miles higher than any shuttle has ever flown.'
" The orbit was dictated by the need to put Hubble above the Earth's distorting atmosphere."
' Astronomers hope to use the telescope to look back to almost the beginning of the time, studying stars and galaxies so distant their light has taken 14 billions years to reach Earth.'
' They hope to determine how and when the universe was formed, currently estimated at 15 billion years ago.'
' The telescope originally was scheduled for launch in 1983 but was delayed by technical problems and the Challenger accident.'
' Discovery, which blasted into orbit Tuesday, is scheduled to land Sunday at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif .'
' AP900428-0022'
' AP-NR-04-28-90 0307EDT'
' r a PM-Shuttle-Eyepiece 04-28 0396'
' PM-Shuttle-Eyepiece,0408'
' Telescope Eyepiece Used by Edwin Hubble is Riding on the Shuttle'
' With PM-Space Shuttle, Bjt'
' By LEE SIEGEL'
' AP Science Writer'
' PASADENA, Calif. (AP)'
" The shuttle that put the Hubble Space Telescope into orbit also carries an instrument used in the 1920s by astronomer Edwin Hubble: the eyepiece from what once was the world's most powerful telescope."
" ``It's a great pleasure to have something of such historical significance and something that so directly symbolizes Edwin Hubble's fundamental contributions to astronomy,'' astronaut Kathy Sullivan said Friday as she circled the Earth in space shuttle Discovery."
" The eyepiece from the Mount Wilson Observatory's 100-inch Hooker Telescope was carried into orbit by Sullivan."
' After she brings the eyepiece back to Earth, it will be placed on display at the observatory.'
" ``It's basically a symbolic gesture from the past of astronomy to the future of astronomy,'' said Lyn McAfee, spokeswoman for the Mount Wilson Institute."
' The Pasadena-based group runs the observatory, located in the San Gabriel Mountains outside Los Angeles.'
" ``The discoveries made by Hubble on the 100-inch telescope at Mount Wilson gave us a giant leap forward in our understanding of the universe,'' McAfee said."
" ``We believe the Hubble Space Telescope will do the same thing''."
" The Hooker Telescope was the world's most powerful telescope from its construction in 1918 until 1948, when the 200-inch Hale Telescope was placed in operation at Mount Palomar Observatory northeast of San Diego."
' Using the Hooker Telescope, Hubble was the first to determine the distance to a galaxy outside the Milky Way, the institute said in a statement.'
" ``This crucial discovery provided the first definite proof that other galaxies existed far beyond the confines of our own local galaxy,'' the institute said."
' During the 1920s and 1930s, Hubble and an assistant used the Hooker telescope to take thousands of photographs of faint galaxies, showing that most of them were moving away from each other very quickly.'
" ``This provided observational evidence for the concept, suggested by Einstein's Theory of Relativity, that the universe is expanding,'' the institute said."
" Hubble's work helped convince scientists the universe was created in a giant explosion, called the ``big bang,'' an estimated 15 billion years ago."
' The Hooker Telescope was mothballed in 1985 by the Carnegie Institution, former operator of the observatory, in a money-saving move.'
' The institute hopes to obtain funds to reopen it .'
' AP900428-0050'
' AP-NR-04-28-90 1018EDT'
' u a PM-SpaceShuttle 1stLd-Writethru a0444 04-28 1012'
' PM-Space Shuttle, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0444,1034'
' Space Telescope Resumes Operations; Shuttle Crew Prepares for Landing'
" Eds: LEADS with 12 grafs to UPDATE with quote from news conference, telescope's instruments still on hold, other detail from briefing; and to CORRECT spelling of Olivier sted Oliver in 6-7th grafs pvs."
" Picks up 8th graf pvs, `The telescope problems...' ."
' LaserPhoto HTN1 ^By LAURA TOLLEY'
' Associated Press Writer'
' SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP)'
' The Hubble Space Telescope was awakened from its self-induced sleep today but it was still without the use of its high-speed antennas, and its science instruments were on hold, unable to begin any observations.'
" ``We are out of the `safe-mode' right now,'' said Steve Terry, a supervisor of the engineers controlling the telescope."
" He said the telescope was running on a ``normal control-all mode,'' where its own computers and sensors guide where it is pointing."
" Discovery's astronauts, meanwhile, packed their gear for a return to Earth Sunday, made some last-minute observations of Earth and talked with ground-based reporters about their flight."
' Pilot Charles Bolden said he was especially upbeat about the widespread public awareness of the telescope, which is expected eventually to look back 14 billion light years _ nearly to the birth of the universe.'
" ``It's hard to go somewhere and find someone who has never heard of the Hubble Space Telescope,'' said Bolden."
" ``It makes little kids' eyes light up."
" It makes little kids want to learn how to add and subtract and study science''."
" The telescope's big eye has remained open, but Hubble had been in a ``safe mode'' with all motion stopped because of earlier problems in linking the high-speed dish antennas with a relay satellite."
' The antennas are the primary links for relaying scientific data to the ground.'
' Terry said that even in the safe mode, one of the tape recorders in the telescope reads telemetry signals from all its systems and that these would be played to Earth and analyzed when the antennas are working properly.'
" ``We expect to use that data to investigate what happened,'' he said."
' Engineers are able to send commands to the telescope via its secondary antennas but the communications system is not useful for scientific data, which must be transmitted at a high rate of speed.'
" ``We're putting the scientific instruments in a hold mode, in effect a standby mode,'' he said."
" Shortly after 6 a.m. EDT, controllers at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., completed a series of commands that took the telescope out of its safe mode and then began to run a 12-hour computer program to monitor Hubble's health."
' It will take another day before the $1.5 billion telescope is operating the way it was supposed to at this point in the startup process, said Hubble deputy project manager Jean Olivier.'
" ``We're backing up to a very deliberate and slow and careful approach to these problems,'' Olivier said Friday."
" ``This is not the time to do anything dumb''."
' The telescope problems have put the flight center several days behind, but the five astronauts who deployed it earlier this week were sticking to their schedule.'
' Landing is scheduled for 9:48 a.m. EDT Sunday at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., but flight controllers were keeping a close watch on the weather.'
' Winds were predicted to be about 20 mph with gusts up to 29 mph.'
' Mission rules dictate that headwinds cannot exceed 29 mph at touchdown.'
' The shuttle carries enough supplies to stay in orbit three days beyond Sunday if necessary, NASA said.'
" Mission Control awakened the crew members at about 1:30 a.m. EDT today by playing the song, ``Cosmos''."
" ``Thanks for the wake-up music, it's pretty appropriate for today,'' said Commander Loren Shriver."
" ``The song was selected in honor of Hubble Space Telescope, which is now open for business,'' said Mission Control commentator James Hartsfield."
' The astronauts were to finish up their experiments and photography today and pack for the trip home.'
' They also planned to hold a news conference from space with reporters at the Johnson Space Center.'
" Shriver and pilot Charles Bolden were to run through a series of tests to make certain the shuttle's computers and control jets were ready for return to Earth."
' The crew deployed Hubble on Wednesday but they had stayed close to the telescope in case there was trouble opening the aperture door.'
' Mission specialists Bruce McCandless and Kathryn Sullivan were prepared to perform a space walk today to crank it open in orbit 380 miles above Earth.'
" But that proved unnecessary when the door was opened Friday morning, exposing the telescope's finely polished 94.5-inch eye to starlight for the first time."
" Two of Hubble's four position-stabilizing gyroscopes stopped working when the door opened, but engineers later got them back on line."
' The gyroscopes were knocked out by the motion and that, too, kept the telescope in the safe mode, said Dave Drachlis, director of orbital verifications at Goddard.'
" A colleague, Steve Terry, said Hubble's systems were set at conservative limits for the first operations and that caused many malfunctions."
' There also were two communications outages totaling several hours.'
" Hubble is designed with safe modes so it can be ``the master of its own destiny'' in case contact with an orbiting communications system is lost for extended periods, Terry said."
' NASA had planned to release its first test image from the telescope on Tuesday, showing an open star cluster in the constellation Carina.'
' But Terry said that would be delayed because of the antenna problems.'
' Scientific data will follow in a month or two.'
' The telescope, named for the late astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, will enable astronomers over its 15-year working lifetime to look back 14 billion years and possibly determine the age of the universe.'
' The universe is believed to have been created about 15 billion years ago in a cosmic explosion.'
' Hubble provided the basis for the big-bang theory of creation.'
' He discovered during the 1920s that the universe is expanding and that the farther the galaxy is from Earth, the faster it is moving away .'
' LA042290-0160'
' 208054'
' April 22, 1990, Sunday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 4; Column 1; National Desk'
' 253 words'
' SHUTTLE COUNTDOWN RESUMES FOR HUBBLE TELESCOPE MISSION'
' By from United Press International'
' KENNEDY SPACE CENTER, Fla .'
" Countdown clocks resumed ticking Saturday for the shuttle Discovery's delayed launch Tuesday to boost the $1.5-billion Hubble Space Telescope into orbit ."
' Engineers also readied the shuttle Columbia for rollout to its launch pad today for a May flight .'
" Discovery's carefully scripted countdown began on time at 3 p.m."
" The ship's five-member crew is set to blast off at 5:31 a.m. PDT Tuesday, 14 days after the flight was grounded just four minutes before takeoff by a faulty hydraulic power steering unit ."
' "We\'re off and running," NASA spokesman George Diller said.'
' "We\'re still 80% go for launch weather-wise" .'
" With Discovery's launch processing on track, engineers worked to ready Columbia for its May 16 Spacelab astronomy mission ."
' The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has not had two shuttles on the launch pad since Columbia took off Jan. 12, 1986, with Challenger poised on a pad 1.7 miles away .'
" Columbia's 3.5-mile trip to the firing stand was set to begin at 8 a.m. today."
" Five hours later, Discovery's five-member crew was scheduled to fly in from the Johnson Space Center in Houston to make final preparations for launch ."
' Commander Loren J. Shriver, 45; co-pilot Charles F. Bolden, 43; Steven A. Hawley, 38; Bruce McCandless, 52, and Kathryn D. Sullivan, 38, plan to launch the telescope Wednesday .'
" Discovery's replacement auxiliary power unit was successfully test fired Wednesday and the battery charging for the telescope was completed Thursday, one day ahead of schedule ."
' Wire'
' DISCOVERY (SPACE SHUTTLE); SPACE SHUTTLE; SCHEDULES; HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE; SPACE PROGRAMS  UNITED STATES'
' LA042590-0135'
' 209452'
' April 25, 1990, Wednesday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk'
' 911 words'
' POWERFUL TELESCOPE SOARS INTO SPACE ABOARD SHUTTLE'
' By LEE DYE, TIMES SCIENCE WRITER'
' KENNEDY SPACE CENTER, Fla .'
' The space shuttle Discovery brought a thundering end to years of frustration when it blasted off Tuesday to extend human vision to the very edge of the universe .'
' The Discovery roared to a record high orbit of 381 miles, where its crew today will ever-so-carefully deploy the Hubble Space Telescope, billed as the finest optical instrument ever created, a $1.5-billion scope that is half a billion times more powerful than the human eye .'
' Seven years behind schedule, the telescope will be deployed by astronaut Steven Hawley, an astronomer, on a day that many scientists were beginning to doubt they would ever see .'
' "It\'s been long and frustrating," conceded Edward Weiler, program scientist for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, who was visibly shaken by the launch .'
' "Every astronomer," he said softly, "should take today off" .'
' The launch marked the beginning of an era  some say a revolution  in the exploration of the universe .'
' "After 12 years," astronomer Eric Chaisson of the Space Telescope Science Institute said with a sigh, "it has finally left the Earth" .'
" High above the haze of the Earth's atmosphere, the Hubble is expected to produce images 10 times sharper than even the largest telescopes on Earth today."
' The telescope will not get down to serious science until it completes a seven-month checkout and engineering period.'
' Then scientists will begin studying some of the dimmest and most distant objects in the universe .'
' After the deployment, engineers at the Goddard Space Flight Center will begin the tedious process of activating the telescope.'
' Although scientific images that should tell much about the origin and evolution of the universe will not be released for several months, there will be a few teasers early on .'
' In about seven days the Hubble should snap its first picture  what astronomers call "first light" for the telescope  but it will be primarily an engineering exercise and the image is not expected to amount to much.'
' The image, of a cluster of stars in the southern sky, will be taken during the beginning of the focusing phase, so it may not even be in focus .'
' But it will still represent a historic moment .'
' "The stars may be so out of focus they look like doughnuts," said Caltech\'s James Westphal, principal scientist for the telescope\'s wide field camera.'
' "But however it comes out, it\'s going to be great" .'
' It will mark the moment when humans freed themselves from the fuzzy view from Earth and looked to the heavens with absolute clarity.'
' There will be other space telescopes in the years ahead, but there will never be another moment quite like this .'
' "Every bit of 12 years was worth it," Weiler said moments after Discovery lifted off on a sunny day, pierced a fleecy white cloud and emerged on the other side like a spacecraft on a journey to the future .'
' Sadly, some who have worked so hard for so long were forced to miss the launch.'
' They were here two weeks ago, but when the launch was delayed because of a hydraulic problem they returned to their homes, and many agencies had not budgeted for two trips to Cape Canaveral .'
" Weiler estimated that only about one-third of the people who were here April 10 made it back for Tuesday's launch."
' Among the missing were most of the families who had accompanied scientists in hopes of seeing this little bit of history .'
' There was only one small snag in the otherwise perfect launch when a valve failed to close automatically, halting the countdown at 31 seconds before launch.'
' The valve was ordered by computer to correct its position, and it did so, clearing the way for the countdown to resume .'
' That delayed the launch about four minutes.'
" But at 5:34 a.m. PDT, with Air Force Col. Loren J. Shriver, 45, sitting in the commander's seat, the shuttle lifted off ."
' All five members of the crew are veterans of previous flights.'
' This is the second flight for Charles F. Bolden Jr., 43, the pilot, and mission specialists Bruce McCandless, 52, and Kathryn D. Sullivan, 38.'
' It is the third flight for Hawley, 38 .'
' Sullivan and McCandless will be partially suited for a spacewalk today just in case anything goes wrong during the deployment of the telescope.'
' The most anxious moments will come as Hawley gently lifts the 25,000-pound instrument out of its tight quarters in the cargo bay .'
" He will do that with the shuttle's robotic arm, which he tested in the first hours of the flight."
' The arm, however, tends to drift slightly, so he will have his hands full keeping the telescope from banging into the sides of the payload bay as he lifts it .'
" Engineers will not breathe freely until the telescope's two giant solar arrays are unfurled."
" The solar arrays keep the telescope's high-tech batteries charged, and if they are not fully deployed within six hours after the telescope is lifted out of the cargo bay, the batteries will have discharged to the point that some instruments in the telescope could be damaged ."
' So Sullivan and McCandless will be ready to step outside and manually unfurl the solar arrays if necessary .'
' After the telescope is released and functioning on its own, the Discovery will back off about 40 miles and shepherd the scope around Earth for two days.'
' If anything goes wrong during that period, the shuttle can rendezvous with the telescope and McCandless and Sullivan can go out and work on the problem .'
' If there are no problems, Discovery will land at 6:49 a.m. PDT Sunday at Edwards Air Force Base .'
' Photo, Heading for spacecraft on morning of launch is shuttle Discovery crew, from left: Bruce McCandless, pilot Charles F. Bolden Jr., Kathryn D. Sullivan, Steven Hawley and flight commander Loren J. Shriver.'
' Agence France-Presse; Photo, (Southland Edition) Discovery blasts off with the Hubble Space Telescope aboard.'
' Agence France-Presse'
' HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE; SPACE EXPLORATION; SPACE PROGRAMS  UNITED STATES; SPACE SHUTTLE; DISCOVERY (SPACE SHUTTLE); TELESCOPES; ASTRONOMY'
' LA042590-0152'
' 209563'
' April 25, 1990, Wednesday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 6; Late Final Desk'
' 504 words'
' TELESCOPE LAUNCHED;'
' FREED SOLAR PANEL AVERTS SPACE WALK'
' From Times Wire Services'
' CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla .'
' The Discovery astronauts triumphantly launched the $1.5-billion Hubble Space Telescope one orbit late today after last-ditch commands from Earth freed a stuck solar panel, narrowly averting a daring emergency spacewalk .'
' The telescope began orbiting Earth every 97.3 minutes at an altitude of 380 miles  high above the atmosphere, which has limited the view of ground-based telescopes .'
' "Discovery, go for Hubble release," Mission Control told the crew at 12:37 p.m. PDT.'
' The event occurred a minute later as the shuttle slowly and carefully backed away as the telescope, glinting in the sunlight, drifted off on its 15-year search for new worlds .'
" The final hours before its release were a nightmare for ground controllers as they commanded the unfurling of two solar panels that power the telescope's instruments ."
' The starboard panel balked twice as it was being pulled from its reel.'
' Mission Control ordered spacewalking astronauts to be ready to go out of the cabin to help.'
' But there was a third try, and it was successful .'
' "We have confirmation that the solar array wing on the starboard side has been deployed," the telescope control center in Maryland said .'
' "So we have good news," said Dave Drachlis of the Hubble control center .'
" The deployment of the two 39-foot panels allowed sun power to flow into the telescope's batteries, relieving worries that they would use up their eight-hour charge ."
" Before astronaut Steve Hawley was able to lift the 12 1/2-ton telescope from the cargo bay with the shuttle's mechanical arm, its instruments had to be disconnected from the shuttle's power and shifted over to the batteries ."
' Astronauts Kathryn Sullivan and Bruce McCandless had put on spacesuits and entered an air lock in order to be ready to walk outside and pull out the array in case mechanical deployment of the solar panels failed .'
" The first solar array unreeled from its mast at midday as the shuttle passed 380 miles above South America's eastern coast."
" It started providing power to the telescope's batteries, which otherwise had only eight hours of charge ."
' Deployment of the starboard panel, however, was more troublesome.'
' It refused to budge when latches were first released, then moved about a fifth of its 39-foot length and stopped again.'
' A third attempt rolled the panel out all the way .'
' "Houston, we see motion," Commander Loren J. Shriver reported .'
" Hawley began the long process of releasing Hubble shortly after 4 a.m. PDT when he grasped the Hubble with Discovery's 50-foot-long mechanical arm and carefully hoisted the 12 1/2-ton telescope high above the shuttle ."
' Discovery was 380 miles above Earth, 70 miles higher than any shuttle has ever flown.'
" The orbit was dictated by the need to put the telescope above the Earth's distorting atmosphere ."
" Discovery's five astronauts were awed by the view ."
' "I\'d like to pass on the quote of the day from the on-board astronomer  something to the effect that the big marble (Earth) sure looks far away today," Shriver said of Hawley .'
' Wire'
