' AP881025-0196'
' AP-NR-10-25-88 2051EDT'
' u i AM-BookerPrize 10-25 0401'
' AM-Booker Prize,0414'
' Australian Novelist Wins Booker Prize'
' LONDON (AP)'
" Australian novelist Peter Carey was awarded the coveted Booker Prize for fiction Tuesday night for his love story, ``Oscar and Lucinda''."
" A panel of five judges unanimously announced the award of the $26,250 prize after an 80-minute deliberation during a banquet at London's ancient Guildhall."
' The judges made their selection from 102 books published in Britain in the past 12 months and which they read in their homes.'
' Carey, who lives in Sydney with his wife and son, said in a brief speech that like the other five finalists he had been asked to attend with a short speech in his pocket in case he won.'
" ``If I'd known I was going to win I think I would have taken a bit more trouble with my handwriting,'' he said as he stared down at his notes."
" He was unsuccessful in the prize competition in 1985 when his novel, ``Illywhacker,'' was among the final six."
" Carey called the award a ``great honor'' and he thanked the prize sponsors for ``provoking so much passionate discussion about literature _ perhaps there will be more tomorrow''."
" ``Everyone who loves good books benefits from this, surely,'' he added."
" The winning novel is a fitting choice for Australia's bicentennial year."
" It tells of a romance between an English gambler and an Australian heiress who meet on a steamship's maiden voyage to Australia in the mid-19th century."
' The story weaves in Australian history from its founding in 1788 by British immigrants.'
" Panel chairman Michael Foot, a writer and former leader of the opposition Labor Party, said the judges agreed that entries this year had been ``exceptionally strong'' and that choosing the last six novels was extremely difficult."
" ``We hope there will be no criticisms but if there are, then people should start reading the books for themselves,'' Foot said."
' Carey was the only non-Briton in the final six.'
' The son of an auto dealer, he was born in Bacchus Marsh, Victoria, and attended Geelong Church of England Grammar School, Melbourne, where the Prince of Wales was also a pupil as an 18-year-old in 1966.'
' Carey was an advertising copywriter before turning to writing books in 1965.'
' The first Booker Prize was awarded in 1969.'
' It is administered by Book Trust, an educational charity promoting books, and is sponsored by Booker, an international food and farming business .'
' AP890922-0224'
' AP-NR-09-22-89 2252EDT'
' r i AM-BookerPrize 09-22 0362'
' AM-Booker Prize,0374'
' Bookmakers Pick Japanese Author to Win Booker Prize'
' LONDON (AP)'
" Six novels have been nominated for the Booker Prize, Britain's most prestigious fiction award, and bookmakers say the favorite is ``The Remains of the Day'' by Japanese author Kazuo Ishiguro."
' The award, to be announced Oct. 26, carries a $31,600 prize funded by the Booker McConnell food company.'
" Oddsmaker William Hill gave 7-to-4 odds on Ishiguro's novel about a butler's travels through Britain's West Country and said it was ``a firm favorite'' to win."
" Ishiguro, previously nominated for the award, ``was beaten as the Booker favorite in 1986, which makes his chances that much stronger this time in our view,'' said William Hill spokesman Graham Sharpe."
" The other books nominated are: _ ``Cat's Eye,'' a story of painter Elaine Risley and her return to her childhood home in Toronto by Canadian author Margaret Atwood, also a previous nominee."
" _ ``The Book of Evidence,'' a prison story of kidnap and murder convict Freddie Montgomery by John Banville, literary editor of The Irish Times newspaper."
" _ ``Jigsaw,'' by Sybille Bedford, an autobiographical novel about an adolescent's travels through Germany, Italy and France."
" _ ``A Disaffection,'' Scottish novelist James Kelman's story about a school teacher, Patrick Doyle, whose professional frustrations are fueled by a drinking problem and unrequited love for a colleague."
" _ ``Restoration,'' British author Rose Tremain's story of Robert Merivel, a favorite of King Charles II who married the monarch's youngest mistress."
" ``We expect more interest in this year's Booker Prize than ever before, partly thanks to last year's controversy over Salman Rushdie's `Satanic Verses,''' Sharpe said."
" Rushdie was nominated for the prize last year but it was won by Australian author Peter Carey for his love story ``Oscar and Lucinda''."
" Rushdie, a British citizen, has been in hiding since Feb. 14 when the late Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ordered he be killed for allegedly blaspheming Islam in ``Satanic Verses''."
" This year's six nominees were chosen Thursday from 102 books considered by a panel headed by David Lodge, a British literary critic and novelist who was nominated for the prize last year for his book, ``Nice Work.''"
' AP891026-0208'
' AP-NR-10-26-89 2229EDT'
' u i AM-BookerPrize 1stLd-Writethru a0768 10-26 0283'
' AM-Booker Prize, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0768,0287'
" Kazuo Ishiguro Wins Britain's Top Literary Prize"
' Eds: LEADS throughout to UPDATE with comment by Ishiguro, EDITS to conform.'
' No pickup'
' LONDON (AP)'
" Japanese writer Kazuo Ishiguro won the 1989 Booker Prize, Britain's top literary award, for his novel ``The Remains of the Day,'' judges announced Thursday."
' The prize is worth $32,000.'
" Judges praised the novel, a love story about a butler's English vacation, as ``a cunningly structured and beautifully paced performance''."
" Other finalists this year were Canadian Margaret Atwood for ``Cat's Eye,'' Irish author John Banville for ``Book of Evidence,'' Scotland's James Kelman for ``A Disaffection'' and English writers Sybille Bedford for ``Jigsaw'' and Rose Tremain for ``Restoration''."
" After receiving the prize, Ishiguro paid tribute to Salman Rushdie, the 1988 runner-up for the award, who went into hiding in February when he was threatened with death by Moslems who said his novel ``The Satanic Verses'' blasphemed their faith."
" ``Now that circumstances have changed, when perhaps it is inconvenient for many people to support his writing, I just felt it was fitting that we should not turn our backs on him,'' Ishiguro said."
' Rushdie lives in England.'
' Ishiguro, 39, arrived in England at age 6 and now lives in south London.'
' He writes in English.'
" In announcing the winner, the judges said: ```The Remains of the Day' renders with humor and pathos a memorable character and explores the large, vexed themes of class, tradition and duty."
" It was narrowly preferred but universally admired''."
" Ishiguro was a finalist for the Booker Prize in 1986 for his novel ``An Artist of the Floating World''."
' The Booker Prize is sponsored by Booker, an international food and agriculture business .'
' AP901008-0174'
' AP-NY-10-08-90 1302EDT'
' a e AM-APArts:BookerPrize Adv12 10-08 0310'
' AM-AP Arts: Booker Prize, Adv12,0344'
' $Adv12'
' For Release Friday AMs, Oct. 12, and Thereafter'
' With AM-AP Arts: Britain-Publishing'
" The Booker - Britain's Favorite Literary Prize"
' LONDON (AP)'
" The Booker Prize is Britain's literary event of the year, guaranteed to boost sales of the chosen novel after the award announcement Oct. 16, and dinner in London's ancient Guildhall."
' The prize to the author is a check for 20,000 pounds (nearly $38,000), sponsored by Booker, an international food and agriculture business.'
" ``British publishers are very secretive about their sales but we know that when Thomas Keneally won it in 1982 for `Schindler's Ark,' his publishers, who had printed 15,000 copies, sold 75,000 over the next 23 weeks,'' said Christine Shaw of Book Trust."
' The trust is a charity promoting reading and books and administers the prize.'
" ``The prize has become internationally known, and the worldwide demand for the winning book, in English and translations, is spectacular,'' said Shaw."
" The prize was first awarded in 1969 after talks between Booker and the Publishers' Association on the need for a significant literary award to encourage and reward good writing."
' British publishers can submit three new novels by British and Commonwealth writers.'
' There were 110 submissions last year.'
' A management committee of authors, booksellers, librarians and the sponsors chooses a jury of five: a writer or two, an academic, a politician interested in literature and a literary editor or critic.'
' Each juror reads every book submitted, lists about six favorites and meets the other jurors to select and announce six finalists.'
" As public debate rages over who's in, who's out and who might win, with bookmakers across the country calling the odds, the jurors meet again and finally select the winner on the afternoon of announcement day."
" This year's finalists: Beryl Bainbridge ``An Awfully Big Adventure,'' A.S. Byatt ``Possession,'' Penelope Fitzgerald ``The Gate of Angels,'' John McGahern ``Amongst Women,'' Brian Moore ``Lies of Silence'' and Mordecai Richler ``Solomon Gursky Was Here.''"
' End Adv for Friday AMs, Oct. 12'
' AP901016-0112'
' AP-NY-10-16-90 1631EDT'
' u i AM-BookerPrize 10-16 0375'
' AM-Booker Prize,0431'
" A.S. Byatt Wins Britain's Top Literary Prize"
' By MAGGIE JACKSON'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LONDON (AP)'
" Critic and novelist A.S. Byatt on Tuesday won the Booker Prize, Britain's most prestigious literary award, for her tale of two young scholars investigating the lives of a pair of imaginary Victorian poets."
" The five judges deliberated two hours before awarding the $39,000 prize to Antonia Byatt for ``Possession,'' one of six finalists in the 21-year-old competition."
" Last year's Booker winner was Kazuo Ishiguro for his novel, ``The Remains of the Day''."
" Television executive Sir Denis Forman, chairman of the judge's panel, announced the prize at a banquet in London's Elizabethan Guildhall, seat of the city's Lord Mayor."
" ``There was very strong individual support for several books on the short list and finally `Possession' by A.S. Byatt was the winner by a majority vote,'' said the judges."
" ``The panel was unanimous, however, in agreeing that the standard of the other five novels was exceptionally high and this made their decision unusually interesting and unusually difficult''."
' Ms. Byatt, who earlier this month won the $43,000 Irish Times-Aer Lingus prize for international fiction for the same work, has published five novels since 1964.'
" In ``Possession,'' she tells how two graduate students piece together the relationship and lives of two imaginary Victorian poets from fragments of their letters and by retracing the poets' journeys across England and to France."
' The influence of the past on the living is a theme throughout the book.'
' Ms. Byatt, born in 1936, is the daughter of a lawyer and sister of novelist Margaret Drabble.'
" Her first novel, ``Shadow of a Sun,'' concerned the efforts of a woman to escape the shadow of her novelist father."
" A 1978 work, ``The Virgin in the Garden,'' makes allegorical allusions to Shakespeare and other English literary geniuses in a tale of a play performed at a country house."
' Ms. Byatt taught English and American literature at University College in London until 1983, when she quit to write fulltime.'
" Other finalists this year were 1979 Booker Prize winner Penelope Fitzgerald with ``The Gate of Angels,'' Irish novelist John McGahern's ``Amongst Women,'' Canadian-born Mordecai Richler's ``Solomon Gursky Was Here,'' Brian Moore's ``Lies of Silence,'' and Beryl Bainbridge's ``An Awfully Big Adventure''."
' They were chosen from a list of 113 books published in the United Kingdom in 1989.'
' The Booker Prize is sponsored by Booker, an international food and agriculture business, and administered by The Book Trust.'
" It is Britain's top literary award ."
' FT923-3822'
' _AN-CIJB4AC0FT'
' 920910'
' FT 10 SEP 92 / Arts: Booker Prize shortlist'
' By J.'
' D. F. JONES'
" THE annual Booker ballyhoo got going again yesterday when the judges for this year's Pounds 20,000 prize for British (and Commonwealth) fiction announced the shortlist."
' The Prize (courtesy of Booker plc, the food and agri-business group) is no longer the richest literary award but it guarantees great prestige, and sales, for the winner, and, say its admirers, helpfully brings The Novel to public attention.'
' Its critics say that the autumn brouhaha distorts the annual fiction industry and the intense media hype of the shortlisted authors does a disservice to the hordes of other gifted but unlisted writers.'
" This year's shortlist contains no surprises."
" London's litterati have for weeks been betting on Michael Ondaatje's The English Patient - those of them who have seen a proof copy because it is not officially published until next week."
' Last night the bookmakers William Hill made it the 5-2 favourite.'
' The shortlist is: Serenity House by Christopher Hope (MacMillan Pounds 14.99).'
' Black comedy by a master South Africa-born specialist in the trade.'
" Set in a Highgate 'eventide refuge' where euthanasia is an unspoken word and its senior citizen, Max Montfalcon, turns out to be a geriatric Nazi scientist."
" The FT review next Saturday will describe it as 'surreal farce .."
" scabrously enjoyable '.."
" The Butcher's Boy by Patrick McCabe (Picador Pounds 14.99)."
' An Irish murderer, a soft-in-the-head orphan jailed for life, recalls his life in grisly detail.'
" The FT reviewer said that 'the misery and deprivation of working class life have never been so brutally evoked '.."
" Black Dogs by Ian McEwan (Secker & Warburg Pounds 14.99). McEwan's fiction is uniquely disturbing - some would say deliberately offensive."
' He is the novelist of misanthropy.'
' This is the tale of a failed marriage, episodically told, and the black dogs of evil are both metaphorical and literal.'
' The English Patient by Michael Ondaatje (Bloomsbury Pounds 14.99).'
" The Sri Lankan poet and novelist Ondaatje, who lives in Canada, has followed 'in the skin of a lion' with an extraordinary book about four characters in a Tuscan villa in the closing months of the last war."
' The central metaphor is bombs - disposal of, and then Hiroshima.'
" The 'English patient' is a central mystery around which the others' stories orbit: he fell out of the sky in flames; who is he?"
' The FT review on Saturday will hail it as a masterpiece.'
' Daughters of the House by Michele Roberts (Virago Pounds 14.99).'
' The surprise contender because it is not yet published.'
' Roberts comes from an Anglo-French Catholic background and this informs her new novel with a strong rural-Normandy atmosphere.'
' Two cousins, one pious, one worldly.'
' Shades of Saint Therese of Lisieux.'
' Lots of action in the kitchen; something is hidden in the cellar.'
' Sacred Hunger by Barry Unsworth (Hamish Hamilton Pounds 15.99).'
" Unsworth's massive novel about the 1750s slave trade came out early this year to widespread critical praise."
' The shipboard detail - the horrors of the trade -are brilliantly done.'
' The judges will have to rule on the characterisation of the European protagonists who go off to found a Utopia in Florida.'
' The judges this year, who will include Independent journalist Mark Lawson and John Coldstream, literary editor of The Daily Telegraph, will be chaired by the biographer Victoria Glendinning.'
' The winner will be named at a Guildhall dinner on Tuesday October 13.'
' Last year the prize was won by Ben Okri, for his book The Famished Road .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page 15'
' FT943-3897'
' _AN-EILDEAC1FT'
' 940912'
' FT 12 SEP 94 / Arts: Literature turns over an old leaf - Jackie Wullschlager looks at changing attitudes to the novel'
' By JACKIE WULLSCHLAGER'
' It is a sensational shortlist: a bestseller about love and hypnotism, a blockbuster about battles and brides in Ruritania, and a pornographic shocker about teenage sex and baby murder so explicit that only an obscure Newcastle publisher would risk printing it.'
" Out are the eminences gris of Victorian letters - novels by Thomas Hardy and Mrs Humphry Ward, who advised Gladstone and Roosevelt, didn't make the grade."
' This week the shortlist for the hypothetical 1894 Booker Prize will be announced by six judges, including biographer Victoria Glendinning and broadcaster Melvyn Bragg.'
" They have avoided dull and worthy classics and chosen six books which stirred the fin de siecle world and remain compelling today: George du Maurier's Trilby, Anthony Hope's The Prisoner of Zenda, George Moore's Esther Waters, Kipling's Jungle Book, George Gissing's In the Year of Jubilee and RL Stevenson's The Ebb Tide."
' The winner will be revealed on October 15 (four days after the 1994 Booker Prize ceremony) at the Cheltenham Festival of Literature.'
" Like today's Booker Prize, it is a publishing gimmick; Everyman, which is backing the spoof award, is a significant publisher of classic Victorian novels."
' But the retrospective Booker is also a fascinating exercise in historical reconstruction.'
' It raises questions about how the relationship between literature and society has changed in the past 100 years.'
' First, the similarities.'
' A good yarn is a good yarn.'
' Of the 1894 books, Trilby is the tale of a tone-deaf model who sings like an angel when mesmerised by the sinister hypnotist Svengali, then croaks like a crow when he dies during one of her concerts.'
' The Prisoner of Zenda tells of an Englishman impersonating the King of Ruritania and rescuing him from demons.'
" On the 1994 list Romesh Guneskera's Reef is about a Sri Lankan servant boy and his mysterious master, while Jill Paton Walsh's Knowledge of Angels re-enacts the wolf-child legend."
' All the books on both lists are gripping stories.'
' The lists share key themes.'
" Both, for instance, have books about colonial exploitation - Stevenson's The Ebb Tide and Abdulrazak Gurnah's Paradise, which is set in the First World War in German East Africa."
' Both provoke in similar ways.'
' The controversial books of 1894 were Trilby, with its louche vie boheme milieu, and Esther Waters, in which a 17-year-old girl is seduced, impregnated and offered the services of a professional baby killer for a fiver.'
" It is now seen as Moore's best work, but in 1894 it had problems finding a publisher and the powerful circulating libraries refused to take it."
' A century on, the relationship between fiction and sexual morality remains vexed.'
" Last week, a Times critic complained about the inclusion of Alan Hollinghurst's candid novel of homosexual love, The Folding Star, on the Booker list, because it offended Judaeo-Christian ethics."
' But even if Hollinghurst wins the Booker, his novel will not become the succes de scandale of Esther Waters and Trilby, which became the bestselling novel of the 19th century.'
' For the great difference between then and now is that in 1894 a Booker Prize was not needed to sell fiction.'
" Today, we accept the gap between literary writing, such as Hollinghurst's, and popular bestsellers by writers like Jeffrey Archer and Barbara Cartland."
' This is the gap the Booker tries to bridge by giving high-level publicity to works which would not normally reach a mass audience.'
" The trick works - last year's winner, Roddy Doyle's Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha sold 360,000 hardback copies."
' Before the short-list was announced it sold 10,600.'
' The Victorians, in contrast, were lovers of contemporary fiction.'
' Novels accounted for 20 per cent of published books, and no distinction was made between high and low art.'
' In the mid 19th century, Dickens made Pounds 12,000 for Little Dorrit, the equivalent of nearly Pounds 400,000 today.'
" Between 1861 and 1894, when the population of the UK was half that of today and the literate population smaller still, Mrs Henry Wood's East Lynne sold 400,000 copies."
' All the 1894 Booker writers were popular names; they were also serious, skilful writers whose books can be reread with pleasure 100 years later.'
' Why was fiction so much closer to the public heart in 1894?'
' Social, cultural and psychological reasons play a part.'
' Socially, the 1890s reading public was a vastly more homogenous group than today: a small number of middle class authors wrote for a middle class audience at a time when to be literate was to belong to an elite.'
' The idea of a two-tier, up and down-market, fiction was irrelevant.'
' Culturally, these writers and readers were certain of their place in the mainstream, and the novel was their political and intellectual forum.'
' Today we no longer share the Victorian confidence in the novel as a key genre of our age.'
' Modernism and the overturning of the traditional form by Joyce and Woolf weakened 20th-century belief in the novel and encouraged the divergence between highbrow and lowbrow.'
' The dominance of film and television has made novels a more marginal form and perhaps they no longer attract the most creative talents.'
' George du Maurier originally offered the outline of Trilby to Henry James, who he thought would write a better novel.'
' Today du Maurier would have sold it to Hollywood or the BBC.'
' The fantasy element of fiction, in which we identify with characters as if we know them, was answered in the 19th century by the novel; in the 20th century we have TV soaps.'
" Just as the tabloid newspapers feature characters from EastEnders, so when Dickens' The Old Curiosity Shop was running as a serial there was widespread press speculation on whether Little Nell would die, and readers wrote in begging for her to be saved."
" Sentimentality, accessibility, topicality - what characterises today's soaps were clear features of the novel in 1894."
" Both In the Year of Jubilee and Esther Waters, for example, centre on the burning 1890s debate about marriage, feminism and the 'New Woman', yet both are also tearjerkers which everyone enjoyed."
' The 1894 books are compelling because they prefigure our own times and yet are set back from them.'
" Trilby is a tale of hypnotism and the unconscious a decade away from Freud; The Ebb Tide paved the way for Conrad's Heart of Darkness and the first questioning of colonial oppression."
' It is unlikely that the 1994 Booker choices will speak as eloquently of new trends today.'
' Whereas the 1894 titles had contemporary settings, many of the 1994 books are historical (such as Paradise) or are driven by nostalgia (such as Beside the Ocean of Time).'
' Which book will win on October 15? Stevenson will get the sympathy vote because he died in 1894 in Samoa, the setting of The Ebb Tide.'
" Jungle Book will get the retrospective vote, because it is the best-known today and has fashionable mythic overtones in the lost paradise of Mowgli's jungle; its position on the list may also rescue it from schmaltzy Disney associations and confirm it as a serious novel about a young man's self-discovery."
' My vote goes to Trilby.'
' Soft-focus, ideologically shaky - in its anti-Semitic portrait of Svengali - and sometimes sloppy, it is a story of demonic possession and haunts the imagination like a fairy tale long after better-written works have faded from memory.'
" Like Rebecca, the popular novel by du Maurier's granddaughter, it is a natural equivalent of what the current Booker Prize seeks to create: a combination of the classic and the bestseller ."
' Countries:-'
' GBZ United Kingdom, EC .'
' Industries:-'
' P2731 Book Publishing.'
' P8999 Services, NEC .'
' Types:-'
' NEWS General News .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page 13'
' FT943-5106'
' _AN-EIFD0ACCFT'
' 940906'
" FT 06 SEP 94 / Booker shortlist fields a 'B-team'"
' By ANNALENA MCAFEE, Arts and Literary Editor'
" The shortlist of six for the Pounds 20,000 Booker Prize for fiction, announced yesterday, immediately prompted the question 'Who'? from many in the publishing industry."
" According to one insider, some on the list 'are B-team writers at best'."
" The six include Alan Hollinghurst's The Folding Star (published by Chatto and Windus), a melancholy study of homosexual obsession which was tipped as a likely candidate from the initial 'long list' of 15, The Reef (Granta) by young Sri Lankan writer Romesh Gunesekera and How Late It Was, How Late (Secker and Warburg) by gritty Glasgow realist James Kelman, which was almost universally well-reviewed."
" As for the other three - Knowledge of Angels (Green Bay) a philosophical fable by children's author Jill Paton Walsh, Paradise (Hamish Hamilton) by Zanzibar-born writer Abdulrazak Gurnah and Beside the Ocean of Time (John Murray) by 72-year-old Orcadian poet George Mackay Brown - 'frankly, they don't make the grade'."
" The shortlist for the Booker, the UK's most hyped literary prize and one of the most lucrative, is all the more surprising in a bumper year for new fiction fulfilling the criteria - English language and non-American - for consideration for the award."
" Margaret Atwood's The Robber Bride seems an astonishing omission, as do new novels by Peter Ackroyd, Peter Carey, Candia McWilliam, William Trevor and Jim Crace."
' But if the shortlist of the final six candidates for the prize may be disappointing, the traditional controversy surrounding the award is as rife as ever.'
" One unsurprising omission from the final selection was When The World Was Steady, a first novel by Claire Messud, which was on the 'long list' before it was pointed out that the author was the wife of James Wood, chief literary reviewer of The Guardian newspaper and a Booker judge."
" Professor John Bayley, chairman of the Booker panel and husband of former Booker Prize winner Dame Iris Murdoch, expressed surprise at Mr Wood's failure to reveal his relationship with Ms Messud."
' But it is the final list, rather than the controversy, that discredits the award according to some critics.'
" 'This list,' said one man of letters, 'must have dealt a final death blow to the Booker'."
' The winner, selected from an original 130, will be announced on October 11 .'
' Countries:-'
' GBZ United Kingdom, EC .'
' Industries:-'
' P8999 Services, NEC .'
' Types:-'
' NEWS General News .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page 10'
' FT944-16774'
' _AN-EJLD6AB9FT'
' 941012'
' FT 12 OCT 94 / Judges split as Kelman wins Booker'
' By ANNALENA MCAFEE, Arts and Literary Editor'
" After hours of heated delib-eration - under a system described as 'mad' by one judge - the Pounds 20,000 Booker Prize for fiction last night went to Mr James Kelman for How Late It Was, How Late, published by Secker and Warburg."
' The novel, a story of Scottish low-life narrated largely in Glaswegian dialect, is unlikely to prove a popular choice with booksellers, who have damned all six books shortlisted for the prize as boring, elitist and - worst of all - unsaleable.'
" Professor John Bayley, chairman of the Booker judges, acknowledged that Mr Kelman's book in particular might be deemed inaccessible."
" 'We had an extremely difficult final meeting and were very divided,' he said after three hours of debate."
' Rabbi Julia Neuberger, the only woman on the judging panel, said she was made extremely cross by the decision.'
" 'It's just a drunken Scotsman railing against bureaucracy,' she said."
" 'My eyes are stretched in disbelief."
' The voting system is completely mad.'
' Kelman was the least favourite of the three front runners.'
" If it had been a short story it would have been fine'."
" Mr Kelman's book is, according to some observers, the most difficult work to have won the prize."
" In his acceptance speech, Mr Kelman, perceived by some as a Scottish isolationist, anticipated the criticism, by declaring: 'My culture and my language have the right to exist'."
" One guest at the prize-giving dinner at London's Guildhall, Mr Salman Rushdie, who won the prize in 1981 with Midnight's Children, remarked: 'James Kelman is good, but not as good as he thinks he is'."
' The Booker prize has, in its 26-year history, always provoked controversy.'
" But this year's rows have been of a particularly fine vintage."
' Prof Bayley went on record with a rousing condemnation of contemporary fiction.'
' Another judge, Mr James Wood, literary critic of The Guardian, was attacked for failing to reveal that a young novelist being considered for the award, Ms Claire Messud, was in fact Mrs James Wood.'
' Most damaging of all was the verdict of the booksellers, who dismissed the shortlist as narcoleptic.'
' The other contenders were The Folding Star by Alan Hollinghurst, Beside the Ocean of Time by George Mackay Brown, Paradise by Abdulrazak Gurnah, Reef by Romesh Gunesekera and Knowledge of Angels by Jill Paton Walsh.'
" In spite of heavy publicity, the novels nominated have been selling 50 per cent less than last year's shortlist."
" Last year's winner, Roddy Doyle's Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha, sold 350,000 copies."
" 'Kelman's novel is unlikely to come anywhere near that,' one bookseller said."
' Mr Kelman was also shortlisted for the prize in 1989 for his novel A Disaffection .'
' Countries:-'
' GBZ United Kingdom, EC .'
' Industries:-'
' P8999 Services, NEC .'
' Types:-'
' NEWS General News .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page 12'
' WSJ871110-0154'
" 'Moon Tiger': A Dark Horse Takes the Booker - By Terry Trucco"
' 11/10/87'
' WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)'
' LONDON'
' On the day of the Big Event, Ladbroke, the large British betting agency, posted the final odds.'
' Brian Moore was the favorite at 7-4, followed by Peter Ackroyd (5-2), Iris Murdoch (3-1) and Chinua Achebe (9-2).'
' The two dark horses, Nina Bawden and Penelope Lively, were each tipped at 7-1.'
' You may have noticed a distinctly literary tilt to that lineup, an affinity with the bookshelf, not the bookie.'
' All of those people published new works of fiction here in Britain during the past 12 months.'
' And for the last few weeks, literary punters throughout the British Isles have been placing bets on which of those writers would win the Booker Prize, the best-known, best-liked and, almost incidentally, most prestigious fiction award in the land.'
' In recent weeks the Booker contenders have received almost as much press coverage as the Charles and Di rift.'
' And nearly every article, from book reviews to author interviews, has featured the latest odds.'
" The betting is done largely by literary insiders, says Graham Sharpe, who sets the Booker odds at William Hill, Britain's other big betting agency."
' "They read the books, hear the gossip and want to pull off a little coup for themselves," he says.'
' Last year\'s winner, "The Old Devils" by Kingsley Amis, was a 5-2 favorite, but this year, anyone who chose the victor made some dough.'
' "When she accepted her prize for "Moon Tiger," Penelope Lively looked surprised and pleased.'
' "I\'m not a betting woman, and I have slight reservations about books becoming a spectator sport," she said in soft Oxbridge tones.'
' "But those who are in the know tell me that 7-1 was an irresistible flutter".'
' Her 65-year-old mother was among those who made a killing.'
" America has the Pulitzer Prize for fiction and the National Book Awards, but in terms of excitement, hoopla and man-on-the-street interest, there's nothing akin to the 15,000-pound ($26,000) Booker Prize."
" With the possible exception of France's respected Prix Goncourt, there's nothing quite like it anywhere else."
" Britons wryly compare the Booker to the Academy Awards, and though there's just one prize and no envelope, similarities exist."
" There's a team of judges and a pool of candidates."
' This year each British publisher could submit three new titles, for a grand total of 93.'
' As one judge noted wearily, "By August, I was in more than a slight panic, sometimes reading all day and evening; reading while standing at the bus stop, reading while cooking, reading, almost, while talking on the telephone".'
' Next comes the "short-list," the judges\' top six, which was announced with great fanfare in late September.'
' This year the works included Brian Moore\'s political thriller "The Color of Blood" (E.P.'
' Dutton, 182 pages, $16.95); Peter Ackroyd\'s "Chatterton" (Grove Press, 240 pages, $17.95); Nina Bawden\'s "Circles of Deceit" (St.'
' Martin\'s Press, 208 pages, $14.95); Iris Murdoch\'s 23rd novel "The Book and the Brotherhood" (Viking, 608 pages, $19.95); Nigerian writer Chinua Achebe\'s "Anthills of the Savannah" (Doubleday, 240 pages, $16.95); and "Moon Tiger" (Grove Press, 216 pages, $15.95).'
' The awards presentation came on the last Thursday in October, and like any major awards presentation, it came complete with limousines, banquet (salmon mousse, champagne sorbet and English roast beef) and television cameras.'
' The suspense was genuine; the judges chose the winner just three hours before the announcement.'
' To be sure, the ratings for the prime-time broadcast didn\'t upstage those of "Eastenders," Britain\'s popular soap opera.'
' Yet interest was sufficient for Andre Deutsch, "Moon Tiger\'s" British publisher, to order up an additional 20,000 copies almost the minute Mrs.'
' Lively  and the nation  heard the news.'
' By British standards, sales figures for recent Booker winners are stunning, from "The Old Devils" (80,000 hard-cover copies) to Anita Brookner\'s "Hotel du Lac" (40,000 copies).'
' Even Keri Hulme\'s "The Bone People," a look at Maori culture that most readers found impenetrable, reached a respectable 21,000 in 1985.'
' Short-listed authors are just a few paces behind, sharing the best-seller list with Dick Francis and Scott Turow.'
' Heinemann initially printed 3,000 copies of "Anthills of the Savannah," the usual run for contemporary literary fiction.'
' So far, 10,000 copies have sold.'
' "Being short-listed probably changed the destiny of that book," declares a member of the Heinemann sales staff.'
" Indeed, there's currently talk of initiating a similar prize with a similar purse for the year's best biography."
' Another notable spinoff is the Booker harpies, readers intent on digesting all six titles, then vigorously disputing the choices, which never please everyone.'
' This year the Sunday Times offered readers a complete autographed collection of the six books for the equivalent of $112, perfect fodder for the literary cocktail party cot.'
" It wasn't always this way, of course."
' Headlines were modest back in 1969 when P.H. Newby won the first ever Booker Prize for "Something to Answer For".'
' (The wonderfully appropriate name comes from Booker-McConnell PLC, the international food and agriculture conglomerate that puts up the prize money each year).'
' The idea was to devise a British equivalent to the Prix Goncourt, and like that august French award, the Booker attracted attention the minute it kicked up controversy.'
" The early fuss was kept within the literary world, with critics sniping over choices and the prize's varied ground rules."
' The real world took notice in 1974, when Elizabeth Jane Howard, one of the three judges, wrote a letter to the Times claiming that in her opinion Kingsley Amis\'s "Ending Up," one of the short-listed books, was his best ever.'
' As it happens, she was married to Mr. Amis at the time.'
" He didn't win."
' But many credit the Booker\'s current appeal to the 1982 competition and Thomas Keneally\'s "Schindler\'s Ark," or "Schindler\'s List" as it is known in the U.S.'
' Written as a novel, the book told the true story of a remarkable German who saved the lives of hundreds of Jews in concentration camps.'
" But even after it won the Booker, people argued that it wasn't a novel."
' "The more people questioned it, the more it sold," says Ion Trewin, editorial director at Hodder & Stoughton.'
' "That was the first year the prize caught the media and public imagination.'
' Suddenly the Booker gained inches on front pages".'
' Oh yes, "Moon Tigers" is a dying woman\'s recollection of her life as a World War II war correspondent and her affair with a young tank officer.'
' - Ms. Trucco is a free-lance writer based in London .'
