' AP901127-0119'
' AP-NY-11-27-90 1759EST'
' u i AM-Britain-Politics 1stLd-Writethru a0638 11-27 0755'
' AM-Britain-Politics, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0638,0931'
' John Major to Become British Prime Minister Succeeding Thatcher'
" Eds: LEADS with 19 grafs to CORRECT time element 4th graf `Major, the' to Tuesday night sted Thursday, ADDS background on rapid development of leadership challenge."
" Picks up graf 15 pvs, `Hurd said...'"
' LaserPhotos LON1,3,4,14'
' By MAUREEN JOHNSON'
' Associated Press Writer'
' LONDON (AP)'
' John Major, endorsed by Margaret Thatcher as the politician closest to her heart, was elected by the Conservative Party Tuesday night to succeed her as prime minister.'
' Major, 47, fell two votes short of winning a majority in voting among the 372 Coservative Party members of Parliament, but his two opponents quickly conceded defeat and the party confirmed Major as the winner.'
' Mrs. Thatcher, ending 11 years in power, intended to submit her resignation to Queen Elizabeth II on Wednesday morning, and Major would then be called to lead the government.'
' Major, the chancellor of the exchequer, emerged from his official residence at 11 Downing St. Tuesday night smiling and holding hands with his wife, Norma.'
" Inside, Mrs. Thatcher, who came next door from the prime minister's 10 Downing Street residence, embraced Major."
" ``I am thrilled and delighted that John Major is to succeed me,'' the ``Iron Lady'' said in a statement released by aides."
" ``It is a very exciting thing to become leader of the Conservative Party, and particularly exciting, I think, to follow one of the most remarkable leaders the Conservative Party has ever had,'' Major said."
' ``Our job now I think is quite clear.'
" We are going to unite totally and absolutely, and we're going to win the next general election,'' said Major, who will be the youngest British prime minister in this century."
' Major received 185 votes, two short of a majority.'
' Former Defense Secretary Michael Heseltine received 131 and Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd had 56.'
' Hurd and Heseltine conceded within minutes, and party officials declared Major elected.'
' The party had been torn by the sudden and unexpected leadership challenge by Heseltine, who last week stopped Mrs. Thatcher short of victory in the first round of the leadership race.'
" Mrs. Thatcher had not wanted to leave office, but she decided to resign last week after she was unable to put down Heseltine's challenge."
' She said she resigned to let someone from the Cabinet stand against Heseltine.'
' Major and Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd both joined the race, but before the vote her aides spread the word that she was backing Major.'
' The son of a circus performer and at one time a welfare recipient, Major personifies the values of self-reliance and hard work that Mrs. Thatcher had preached to the nation.'
" His election climaxed a month of British politics-turned-upside down, and the Western world's longest-serving head of government was driven from office by a revolt in party ranks."
' Heading a government that was trailing the opposition Labor Party in the polls and suffering a losing streak in local Parliamentary elections, Mrs. Thatcher lost control of events after her deputy, Sir Geoffrey Howe, resigned on Nov. 1.'
" Howe, the fourth Cabinet member to resign because of disputes over policy toward the European Community, shocked the House of Commons on Nov. 13 by calling Mrs. Thatcher a threat to Britain's vital interests."
' The next day, Heseltine announced he would challenge her.'
' Six days later, with Mrs. Thatcher at a 34-nation summit in Paris officially ending the Cold War, Heseltine polled enough votes to deny her re-election as leader.'
' Two days later, she decided to resign after party leaders told her she could not win.'
" Heseltine, 57, said Major's election ``lays the basis for the unity of our party''."
" Hurd said the party needed to unite, and ``John Major is the right leader for this task''."
" Opposition leaders derided Major's election as ``Thatcherism with a different face''."
" The Conservatives' main rivals, the socialist Labor Party, demanded a general election."
" ``John Major is a Thatcherette - that is how he sought election and that is how he got elected,'' said Labor Party leader Neil Kinnock."
" ``It means that the policies that brought the poll tax, recession, heavy mortgages and rising unemployment will go on''."
" During his five-day campaign, Major had aaid he would review the ``poll tax,'' an unpopular local tax brought in by Mrs. Thatcher, but he gave no other hints of differing with her."
" While adopting a gentler tone on the contentious issue of Britain's involvement in Europe, he shares her opposition to a single European currency and shares her belief in tight restraint on government spending."
" However, he insisted over the weekend, ``I am not running as `Son of Thatcher'."
" I am running as myself, with my own priorities and my own programs''."
" Major's victory ended a patient, four-year campaign by Heseltine to promote himself as a future leader of the party."
" ``Tomorrow always dawns,'' he said, smiling after conceding defeat."
' Major was elected to Parliament in 1979, was appointed foreign secretary and then chancellor of the exchequer last year.'
' He moved up quickly in the leadership race.'
' By the weekend, opinion polls showed that Major was nearly as highly regarded by the public as was Heseltine, who has been prominent for a decade.'
" Major attracted support from figures on the right wing of the Conservative Party, although his friends insisted Major's own views were more liberal than many supposed."
' He described himself as conservative on economic issues but liberal on social issues .'
' FBIS3-1707'
' "drchi040_a_94025"'
' FBIS-CHI-94-040'
' Document Type:Daily Report'
' 1 March 1994'
' INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS'
' General'
" President Clinton, John Major Emphasize `Special Relationship'"
' OW0103084694 Beijing XINHUA in English 0807 GMT 1 Mar 94'
' OW0103084694'
' Beijing XINHUA'
' Language:'
' English'
' Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, February 28 (XINHUA)  U.S.'
" President Bill Clinton, trying to brush aside recent differences with London, today stressed Washington's special transatlantic relationship with Britain."
' Welcoming British Prime Minister John Major in Pittsburgh, where major\'s grandfather and father once lived, Clinton said at the airport, "We\'re working together today to respond to the terrible tragedy in Bosnia to try to bring an end to the killing and to bring peace and to keep that conflict from spreading".'
' For his part, Major said, pressure would be increased for the peace that every sensitive person wishes to see in that war-torn and troubled land.'
' On Russia, Major said "A Russia that\'s a good neighbor to the United States and West would be one of the finest things that this generation could hand down to the next".'
" Clinton will then share his Air Force One back to the nation's capital."
' Major will spend a night at the White House, the first foreign head of state to have this honor since Clinton became President.'
' On Tuesday [1 March], the two leaders will begin their discussions on a wide range of issues including Russia, Bosnia, Northern Ireland and the world trade.'
' The two will also discuss Northern Ireland and "what to do with NATO," Clinton said.'
' Clinton and major will meet again in June in Europe during the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of D-Day of the second world war.'
" Major said Clinton would visit Britain, and perhaps the Oxford University, Clinton's alma mater, during the June visit ."
' FBIS4-18298'
' "drweu064__a94008"'
' FBIS-WEU-94-064-A'
' Daily Report'
' 4 Apr 1994'
' ANNEX'
' United Kingdom'
' Ministers Support Major Following Resignation Call'
' Ministers Support Major Following Resignation Call'
' PM0404080294 London THE INDEPENDENT in English 4 Apr 94 p 1FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY'
' PM0404080294'
' London THE INDEPENDENT'
' English'
' BFN'
' [Colin Brown article: "Cabinet Allies Close Ranks But Bring'
' Scant Relief to Major"] [Text] Cabinet ministers rallied behind John Major yesterday by insisting there would be no leadership election this autumn.'
' But the concerted show of support failed to dispel doubts among Tory MPs about his chances of staying in office.'
' Right-wing MPs confirmed the findings in an INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY/NOP [National Opinion Poll] poll that Michael Heseltine was the favourite to replace Mr Major, if he is forced out.'
' But they are calculating that Michael Portillo will run hard to secure Eurosceptic policies from the eventual winner.'
' Some of Mr Major\'s closest allies were seething with anger at Mr Heseltine and Kenneth Clarke, the Chancellor, for "posturing" before the damaging retreat last week by the Prime Minister over Britain\'s veto powers in the enlarged European Union.'
' "Why were Clarke and Heseltine trying to sound more Portilloesque than Portillo?'
' The answer\'s pretty obvious," said one Cabinet minister.'
" The leadership is hoping that over the Easter recess the Conservative constituencies will urge their MPs to stop the damaging in-fighting which they believe is overshadowing the Government's fightback on the economy, law and order and education."
' That message was reinforced by three Cabinet ministers who broke their Easter Sundays to support Mr Major.'
' John Patten, the Secretary of State for Education, said: "He is a man of very great resilience.'
' It must be tough for him.'
' No one likes the level of criticism he has been getting.'
' But he will be carrying on a 20- to 30-year programme begun in 1979 through to the next general election".'
' Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, said: "There is no prospect of any leadership contest.'
' John Major is going to lead the Conservative Party successfully into the next general election".'
' He dismissed one poll of 100 MPs which showed that 41 of them believed there would be a change of leadership.'
' Lord Wakeham, Leader of the House of Lords, used a letter to his former constituency of Colchester South to issue a general call to Tories for loyalty to Mr Major.'
' "Our support for him should not only be loyalty to a proven winner, but also backing for a man who has ideas, ambitions and ability to take Britain to success in the 21st century," Lord Wakeham said.'
' Their calls were described as "ritualistic" by one leading right-wing Tory MP.'
' "John Major has done himself great damage.'
' There will not be a coup next week.'
' It will depend on how we do in the local and European elections.'
' But there will be a stalking horse candidate this autumn.'
' There\'s little doubt about that," he said.'
' However, Tory right wingers said last night that they would support Mr Major because there was no credible right-wing candidate.'
' Mr Portillo, 40, was too young and they still regarded Mr Heseltine as an interventionist left-winger.'
' If a challenge does take place, they will press Mr Portillo to stand to secure key commitments, including no British entry into a single European currency.'
' Three of the Tory MPs who have been rumoured as possible stalking horses  Teresa Gorman, Tony Marlow and Sir Richard Body  appeared to rule themselves out.'
' The odds against Mr Major surviving have shortened from evens to 11/10 against over the past 24 hours.'
' The Prime Minister told journalists at his Huntingdon Conservative Club at the weekend that he would not be forced out by the speculation.'
' "It hasn\'t stopped me in the past two years.'
' It isn\'t going to stop me now" .'
' FBIS4-24776'
' "drchi106_h_94002"'
' FBIS-CHI-94-106'
' Daily Report'
' 7 May 1994'
' West Europe'
' Editorial Views Future of UK Prime Minister'
' Editorial Views Future of UK Prime Minister'
' HK0805015794 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 7 May 94 p A2'
' HK0805015794'
' Hong Kong WEN WEI PO'
' Chinese'
' BFN'
' [Editorial: "There Are Signs of Conservative Party Changing'
' Its Leader"] [Text] In local government elections across Britain yesterday, the Conservatives suffered their worst defeat ever, losing control of 17 regional councils and 444 seats.'
' As the ruling party, the Tories took just 27 percent of the vote, two percentage points lower than their rating in the polls.'
' The results of the local elections showed that the Tories were reduced to the third party nationally, behind the Liberal Democrats and the Labour Party.'
' The Labour Party controls 90 local councils, whereas the Conservatives only control 13, with a sharp contrast in strength between the two sides.'
' The Liberal Democrats had a net gain of 378 seats.'
' Even some former Conservative members of parliament announced publicly to reporters that they would vote for the Liberal Democrats.'
' Of course, this was a measure taken by Tories under circumstances of an inevitable defeat to reduce losses by encouraging constituents, who resent the Tories, to vote for the Liberal Democrats rather than Labour.'
' In the deep sorrow of defeat, some Conservatives are secretly feeling happy.'
" They resent John Major's leadership, and would most willingly link Major's incompetence and lack of vision with the bitter defeat in the local elections."
" Even before all of the results were known, some Tories openly announced their determination to challenge John Major's position and remove him from office as early as possible."
" The right-winger Michael Portillo added salt to the wound by starting a dispute over the European issue, and highlighted John Major's image as a loser who fails to command."
' Obviously, all of these actions were long planned and are aimed at making John Major suffer an even greater defeat in the European Parliament elections scheduled for 9 June.'
' Before 9 June, nobody will officially challenge for the position of party leader.'
' But he who is in office must suffer the pain of electoral defeat.'
' After 9 June, John Major will have to answer for all of the disasters, and it is time to use him as a scapegoat.'
' John Major is someone who was propped up by Mrs. Thatcher, who supported appointing the mediocre John Major as her successor when she was utterly isolated so that one day she would be able to pull strings from behind the scenes and continue to pursue the Thatcher line.'
' Nevertheless, people around John Major seriously pushed him to betray Thatcher\'s doctrine, while pursuing entirely new "leftist" policies and affecting John Major\'s moves.'
' For a very long period, right-wingers and left-wingers argued over many domestic and world issues.'
' John Major has always been weak and powerless, and vacillates to the left and to the right resulting in his own "crisis of honor".'
" On the European issue, he stressed the imperative of maintaining the sovereignty, cultural traditions, and life-style of each country of the future European Union, while reflecting the islanders' mind set."
' On the one hand, he expressed the will to join the European family; on the other, he made one big stride closer to the right.'
" While great skill is needed to have one's bread buttered on both sides, John Major has been relatively stupid in such circumstance."
' When expounding on such concepts, he set out a campaign to "return to basic values," with an emphasis on citizen self-discipline, taking social responsibility and obligations, and being upright.'
' However, one scandal surfaced after another in his cabinet; consequently, British citizens saw how bombastic Major could be and how he failed to know himself.'
" The scandals caused Major's reputation to collapse."
' For a long time, John Major has failed to resolve the economic crisis and has seriously jeopardized the interests of British people, who have become poorer with each passing day and suffer from a high rate of unemployment.'
' At this critical juncture, John Major went back on promises made during the election campaign by increasing value-added tax on domestic fuel; as a result, things became even harder for the poor.'
' He promised to reduce public expenditure, but on the contrary, it rose by 45.5 percent.'
' [as published] John Major has become an expert in making "empty promises," while constituents continue to scorn this dishonest prime minister.'
" Many Conservatives believe that John Major is driven by a gambler's mind set."
' At a time when his reputation was waning, he wanted to start an offensive in the arena of difficult world issues, regardless of British national strength.'
' This being the case, he wanted to try his luck in Bosnia, as well as policy toward China; however, he was helpless in dealing with domestic economic issues which would only lead Britain to an impasse.'
' It will be difficult for John Major to lead the Tories in the next general election; therefore, news spread earlier this year that John Major would be replaced.'
' The setback which has resulted from defeats in the local elections is heavier than expected.'
' To accelerate a leadership reshuffle, Conservatives have spread the opinion that "John Major is not up to his office".'
' However, if politicians from various factions compete for office by taking a laissez-faire attitude, the Tory unity will be jeopardized.'
' This being the case, a planned transfer of power, especially the reorganization of the cabinet and the replacement of the party chairman, is necessary.'
' When the new party chairman is elected, the question of who will replace John Major will be settled too.'
' Word has spread that John Major wants Chris Patten to become Conservative Party chairman; however, this proposal was rejected.'
' That should have been a party secret; making public such an inside story would only provide evidence of political reality, namely, many Conservatives did not agree to Chris Patten contending for this position.'
' There are no grounds to allow a politician who has lost a previous electoral campaign to canvass votes in the next one under unfavorable electoral circumstances.'
" That would only aggravate the Tory's poor image as a party which enjoys little public support and has few talents."
' In actual fact, should John Major set out such a line in appointing people, that would only give more evidence of his poor ability, insight, and lack of judgment, as well as his self-knowledge.'
' Now, it is just a matter of time until he leaves office; but nobody will let him make arrangements for the transfer of power.'
' Work to seek a new leader will be conducted by veteran Tories; how can John Major be qualified for such a task?'
' FT932-15960'
' _AN-DDHB2ACIFT'
' 930408'
" FT 08 APR 93 / John Major's Year: Major's blue period - A year on from success at the polls, the prime minister's popularity has plunged."
' He still has a great deal to prove'
' By MICHAEL CASSELL and IVOR OWEN'
' ONE year ago tomorrow, Mr John Major surprised everyone but himself by winning the general election.'
' His honeymoon, after a very personal victory, was short-lived and now he begins the second year of his hard-won term as a deeply unpopular leader who has everything still to prove.'
' The past 12 months have been hijacked by internal party differences over Europe, by the debacle surrounding UK withdrawal from the exchange rates mechanism of the European Monetary System, and by a continuing, deep recession which has disappointed and alienated many traditional Tory supporters in business.'
" Mr Major's anniversary inevitably led yesterday to an outbreak of political point-scoring over the government's record."
" While Mr Tony Newton, leader of the Commons, conceded: 'No one pretends that the last year has been easy,' he also claimed that much had been achieved."
" The government's efforts to secure a framework for long-term prosperity was beginning to pay off."
" Mr John Smith, the Labour leader, was joined by 10 frontbench colleagues in launching a counter-attack, involving a detailed and documented indictment of Mr Major's failures."
" He attacked the Tories for building 'a bonfire of pre-election commitments'."
' Tory allegiances in the business world have also been put under immense pressure, though criticism over policy drift and inaction may soften as recession ends.'
" Yesterday Sir Michael Angus, president of the Confederation of British Industry, remained cautious but volunteered: 'If I were a betting man I would say we have the embryo of a recovery'."
" Mr Major can take little comfort from the conclusion, widespread among industrialists, that his greatest achievement in the past year has been Britain's withdrawal from the ERM - something which he resisted and over which, in the end, he had no control."
' Most industrialists, however, find it hard to criticise Mr Major as an individual, with many drawing a flattering parallel between his personal qualities and those of his predecessor.'
' He still attracts gratitude for the election victory, which was seen - despite subsequent problems for the economy - as the best result for business.'
' But, unlike the previous No 10 occupant, he is seen as a weak leader, with little vision and bereft of a clearly articulated political conviction.'
" There is a general perception that, important though Britain's future place in Europe is, the prime minister has been excessively preoccupied with community affairs and associated internal party ructions, to the detriment of the domestic economy."
' Many industrialists are pleased that Mr Major is now attempting to reshape economic strategy in favour of the manufacturing base.'
' But the jury is out on whether the rhetoric will give way to effective action.'
" - The first 12 months - election victory to an initial Maastricht defeat - APRIL Wins election with 21 seat majority 'The country looked a Labour government in the eye and decided that it was not after all Time for a Change' - Peter Jenkins, the late political commentator 'We have won tonight a magnificent victory, a victory many people thought beyond our grasp' - Major - MAY Best Conservative local election results for 13 years in England and Wales."
" Tories win control of 126 councils - JUNE Rio Summit No new British aid to finance the conference decisions, only a proposal for a 'Darwin initiative' to exchange information on endangered species."
" 'I came here with low expectations and all of those have been met' - Jonathon Porritt, the environmental campaigner 'I believe that both in the short and long term, people will look back and say that at Rio we took a decisive step' - Major - JULY Britain takes over EC presidency 'Those whom the gods would destroy they first grant the presidency of the European Council of Ministers' - Mark Almond, Fellow of the Institute for European Defence and Strategic Studies - AUGUST Two-day Yugoslav peace conference of 30 nations is presented as triumph of international diplomacy for John Major and UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros Ghali 'Talks, what talks'? - Serbian president, Slobodan Milosevic as he storms out while Major is speaking - SEPTEMBER Black Wednesday Bank of England interest rates rise to 15 per cent before government takes sterling out of the EMS."
" 'The sky is darkening with the wings of chickens coming home to roost' - Lord Callaghan 'There is going to be no devaluation, no realignment, the deflationary option would be a betrayal of our future and it is not government policy' - Major - OCTOBER Mining closures U-turn Michael Heseltine announces review of 21 of 31 pits under threat 'I'm just getting used to being more popular than John Major' - Arthur Scargill 'What has happened is a development of what was in the government's mind."
" We have to listen to what people say' - Major - NOVEMBER Matrix Churchill inquiry John Major challenged over claims he had 'specific' and 'personal' knowledge that Matrix Churchill exported machine tools to Iraq for munitions manufacture."
" 'Either ministers do not know what is going on in their own departments, or they were not prepared to tell' - Allan Rogers, Labour's former defence procurement spokesman - DECEMBER Edinburgh conference Concessions granted to Danes in hope voters will approve Maastricht at second referendum."
' Agreement on EC spending levels, Maastricht back on track for ratification - JANUARY Major launches libel action against New Statesman & Society and Scallywag over allegations linking him with businesswoman Claire Latimer.'
" 'It is not our intention to slur the prime minister' - Steve Platt, editor of New Statesman - FEBRUARY Unemployment tops 3m 'Provided the circumstances are right there is no reason why we shouldn't bounce back this time' - Gillian Shephard, secretary of state for employment - MARCH Maastricht debate More than 40 Tory MPs revolt in first Commons defeat on Maastricht treaty legislation, defying Major's appeal for party unity 'When they started out they weren't even household names in their own homes' - David Mellor on Tory Euro-rebels -"
' Countries:-'
' GBZ United Kingdom, EC .'
' Industries:-'
' P9111 Executive Offices .'
' Types:-'
' PEOP People .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page 11'
' FT933-10917'
' _AN-DHAABAE8FT'
' 930731'
' FT 31 JUL 93 / Hawks & Handsaws: A few blunt words'
' By MICHAEL THOMPSON-NOEL'
' THE revelation that John Major is capable of candid, blunt and salty language when talking off-the- record to friendly journalists has surprised some people.'
" It has even been suggested that the recording of the prime minister's conversation with Michael Brunson, ITN's political editor, in which Major used a variety of four-, six- and eight-letter words to communicate his lack of fondness for certain colleagues, may do him good."
" With luck, it is reckoned, Major's image as a leaden-tongued wimp may undergo correction."
' What piffle.'
" Major is a gonner, especially after this week's revolt of the wooden-tops in the Christchurch by-election, where a Conservative majority of 23,015 at last year's general election was converted into a 16,427 majority for the Liberal Democrats."
' Fifteen months too late, the voters of Christchurch rounded on the Tories with a malignant and squeaky fury.'
' In reality, all politicians, not just Major, are far more candid and salty when chatting in private than when speaking in public.'
' In public, they have to be careful of what they say, so their utterances achieve a horrible mattness.'
' But in private they relax.'
' Their syntax disappears.'
' Their words become nonsensical.'
' They swear and joke and shout.'
' It really is a spectacle.'
' To show you what I mean, I spoke yesterday to John Major and John Smith.'
' Smith, a Scot, is leader of the Labour Party, though not many people know that.'
' In the aftermath of Christchurch, where Labour lost its deposit, I wanted to provoke the two Johns into a spot of real soul-searching.'
' To guarantee them privacy, I used a signal-scrambler.'
' No one could have eavesdropped.'
' Their responses were true to form.'
" But I have left out the swear-words because the new Financial Times Style Guide states that 'the gratuitous use of expletives or obscenities is discouraged . . . Four-letter expletives will usually be confined to infrequent use in the review (Arts) pages'."
' I can live with that, though why the artsy-fartsies should receive any dispensation is a puzzle.'
' First, I tackled Major.'
" I said: 'Did you read, John, what Olivier Blanchard, Rudiger Dornbusch, Stanley Fischer, Franco Modigliani, Paul A Samuelson and Robert Solow wrote, in just one article, in the FT this week?"
" They were describing Europe's lunatic monetary policies and exchange rate arrangements."
' They did not pull their punches.'
' I bet you went chalk-white.'
" 'So why not walk the plank, John?"
' You are the most unpopular prime minister since the start of the fourth century.'
' Why invite more punishment?'
" Unfairly or not, you are drawing the blame for all life's unpleasantnesses, let alone the cock-ups'."
" 'Are you sure'? the prime minister replied."
" 'I mean . . . how did it come about, Michael . . . like, Christchurch, y'know - load of . . . let me put it to you - the economy, of course . . . I mean, wimpy guy like me."
" But I'm not giving in like that, like . . '."
' On and on it went.'
' Then I rang John Smith.'
' I told him I had been impressed with his interview with Andrew Marr in The Independent on Thursday, in which he sharpened up his promise to introduce meaty political reforms (if he ever gets elected), including a referendum on proportional representation.'
" I said: 'You are starting to raise your game, John."
" Many people will have agreed with your assertion that democracy in Britain is decaying, and that the Tories must be roasted for their arrogance, incompetence, complacency and sharp practices - especially their 'centralisation of power and the elimination of opposition'."
' But some of your critics still accuse you, John, of laziness and ineffectualness.'
" What do you say to that'?"
" 'Away, ye thowless jad,' shouted the Labour leader."
" 'Gie me o'wit an' sense a life, behint a kist to lie an' sklent."
" Our Stibble-rig was Rab M'Graen, a clever, sturdy fellow, but then he was sae fley'd by his showther gae a keek, an' tumbl'd wi' a wintle."
" Likewise with political and constitutional reform, Michael, for by the L - - d, tho' I should beg wi'lyart pow, I'll laugh, an' sing, an' shake my leg, as lang's I dow]' After that, I thought of telephoning Wing-Commander Paddy Ashdown, leader of the Liberal Democrats, to solicit his views on Christchurch."
" But I couldn't raise the energy ."
' Countries:-'
' GBZ United Kingdom, EC .'
' Industries:-'
' P9111 Executive Offices .'
' Types:-'
' PEOP People .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page XX'
' FT942-6613'
' _AN-EE2AAAF1FT'
' 940528'
' FT 28 MAY 94 / Major additions and omissions: Dominic Lawson on a prime minister who has invented himself'
' By DOMINIC LAWSON'
" Last year a biography of Mrs Norma Major - or, if we are being old-fashioned, Mrs John Major - claimed that the Majors' favourite film was Being There."
' I entirely concur with their choice.'
' In case you did not see that marvellous film, this, in essence, was the plot: a man no one knows anything about, a gardener called Chauncey, rises without trace to become, by the end of the film, a serious candidate for the US presidency.'
" Chauncey, played by Peter Sellers, utters only mundane sentiments in a halting monotone but this convinces the Republican party's power brokers that he is a sure-fire winner."
" In Chauncey's bromides everyone seems to hear what they want to believe."
' He has a deadly innocence.'
' No wonder the Majors liked this film.'
" John Major must, at some level, have appreciated the similarity between his own, strangely intangible, rise and that of Chauncey's."
' If he did not see the similarity, that is still more revealing.'
' Do not protest that the urban John Major could not identify with a gardener.'
' In an interview with Farmers Weekly, a few days ago, Major disclosed an unknown fact: his father was once a farmer.'
" Farmers Weekly, you see, had asked Major how he had 'such obvious empathy with agriculture'."
' (Well, it was obvious to Farmers Weekly, anyway).'
" And Major replied: 'It's simple."
' My father was a farmer.'
" He lived on a small farm somewhere in Shropshire'."
" Francis Wheen of The Guardian, a keen student of Major's mysterious past, immediately rang 10 Downing Street, which claimed that Major's father farmed near Bromsgrove in 1910."
' As Wheen pointed out, Major was an unresponsive minus 33 years old at that time, and - a minor point this - Bromsgrove is not in Shropshire.'
' This, of course, does not mean that Major made everything up.'
' Family folklore is a peculiar thing.'
' Yet when I heard about this, my mind immediately went back to an incident a few months ago, when Major visited Pittsburgh, centre of the US steel industry, as part of his American tour.'
' I recall that he made a great hit by recounting that his father had been a steelworker in the city.'
' A farmer for Farmers Weekly, a Pittsburgh steelworker for the American audience . . . a pattern emerges.'
" Major's father, and therefore by extension John Major himself, can be all things to all people."
' If John Major were a different sort of politician, this would be a point barely worth making.'
" But it does seem all of a piece with Major's approach to wider political issues."
' On the one hand he will appeal to the pro-Europeans in his own party by claiming to want Britain to be at the heart of Europe.'
' On the other he is free with insulting references to the European Commission, whenever it is necessary to appeal to an audience of Euro-sceptics.'
' There are those who will argue that this merely means that Major is a typical democratic politician, that one who wants to become prime minister in a democracy must recognise many constituencies of interest, not just one.'
" But that has not been true of Major's most recent Conservative predecessors."
" Margaret Thatcher was notoriously dogmatic, even in public, and so too was Edward Heath, even though he always pretended to be a 'consensus politician'."
" No, Major's technique is very much his own invention, very much a reflection of his own particular character, itself a product of his unsettled family background."
' His father, Tom Major-Ball, was an itinerant figure, moving from place to place, trying his hand at any number of occupations, including the circus.'
' No wonder the young John Major learned the skill of fitting in with prevailing circumstances, no matter how fluctuating.'
' The only problem is the old one: you cannot fool all of the people all of the time.'
' Except in the movies.'
' Dominic Lawson is editor of The Spectator'
' Countries:-'
' GBZ United Kingdom, EC .'
' Industries:-'
' P9199 General Government, NEC .'
' Types:-'
' PEOP People .'
' The Financial Times'
' London Page XXII'
' LA112790-0154'
' 314232'
' November 27, 1990, Tuesday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 5; Late Final Desk'
' 512 words'
' THATCHER HEIR ELECTED;'
' TREASURY CHIEF JOHN MAJOR TO BE NEXT PRIME MINISTER'
' From Times Wire Services'
' LONDON'
' John Major, who was endorsed by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher as her successor and heir, was elected today as leader of the Conservative Party and will become prime minister .'
' Major fell two votes short of the needed majority, but his opponents conceded defeat and Conservative Party officials declared him elected .'
' Aides said Thatcher is "thrilled".'
" Major, 47, her chancellor of the Exchequer, is the youngest person to be elected Britain's prime minister since the 19th Century ."
' "It is a very exciting thing to become leader of the Conservative Party, and particularly exciting, I think, to follow one of the most remarkable leaders the Conservative Party has ever had," Major said .'
' He called Thatcher "a very great prime minister indeed" .'
' Thatcher has made no public comment on what she will do next.'
' She could continue to represent Finchley in the House of Commons, enter the House of Lords, write her memoirs or enter business .'
' "Our job now I think is quite clear.'
' We are going to unite totally and absolutely and we\'re going to win the next general election," said Major, who emerged smiling from his residence at 11 Downing St .'
' Major won 185 votes, former Defense Secretary Michael Heseltine had 131 votes and Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd had 56 votes in a secret ballot election among Tory members of Parliament .'
' "I congratulate John Major and thank him for a first-class campaign, fought without rancor or bitterness, which I believe lays the basis for the unity of our party," Heseltine said moments after the vote was announced .'
' Hurd also quickly conceded .'
' Within minutes, Cranley Onslow, chairman of the Conservative Party committee that supervised the election, announced that another ballot was not required and that Major was elected .'
' Thatcher left her residence at 10 Downing Street to congratulate Major, who as chancellor of the Exchequer is her next-door neighbor at No. 11 .'
' Queen Elizabeth II will send for Major and ask him to form a Cabinet after Thatcher has handed in her seals of office at Buckingham Palace on Wednesday morning .'
' Major was elected to Parliament in 1979, was appointed foreign secretary and then chancellor of the Exchequer last year .'
" He attracted support from prominent figures on the right wing of the Conservative Party, although his friends insisted that Major's own views are more liberal than many supposed ."
' He described himself as conservative on economic issues but liberal on social issues .'
' Major epitomized the self-reliant, hard-working achiever whom Thatcher encouraged.'
' Born March 29, 1943, the son of a circus performer, he left school at 16 and was a laborer and at one time a welfare recipient .'
' Major became a banker and a Conservative Party activist and was elected to Parliament in the first Thatcher victory of 1979.'
' He was appointed to a junior ministerial post in 1985, then to the No. 2 position at the Exchequer in 1987 .'
' He emerged as a possible heir-apparent when Thatcher appointed him foreign secretary in July, 1989, and then chancellor of the Exchequer three months later .'
' Photo, Margaret Thatcher talks in Parliament for last time as prime minister.'
' Reuters; Photo, John Major waves to supporters before Conservative Party voting.'
' Associated Press'
' Wire'
' LA112890-0036'
' 314382'
' November 28, 1990, Wednesday, Home Edition'
' Part A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk'
' 1595 words'
' JOHN MAJOR, 47, A THATCHER PROTEGE, WILL LEAD BRITAIN;'
" POLITICS: HE WILL BE CENTURY'S YOUNGEST PRIME MINISTER."
" CONSERVATIVES' CHOICE ENSURES PARTY UNITY ."
' By WILLIAM TUOHY, TIMES STAFF WRITER'
' LONDON'
" John Major, the 47-year-old chancellor of the exchequer who rose out of one of London's toughest neighborhoods and the unemployment line, was selected Tuesday as Britain's next prime minister ."
' Major, whose father was once a circus trapeze artist, was elected leader of the Conservative Party to replace Margaret Thatcher, whose sudden resignation under pressure last week surprised the nation.'
' Thatcher formally presents her resignation today to Queen Elizabeth II, who will then ask Major to form a new government .'
" The Conservatives' choice of Major, a Thatcher protege, came after a battle pitting him against two other contenders for the party leadership, former Defense Secretary Michael Heseltine and Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd."
" The three-way race took shape last week when Thatcher, stunned by Heseltine's strong showing in the first-round voting for party leader, resigned ."
' In the secret, second-round balloting among the 372 Tory members of the House of Commons on Tuesday, Major got 185 votes  two shy of the total he needed for an outright victory.'
' But as party members began preparing themselves for a Thursday runoff between Major and Heseltine, the runner-up, both Heseltine, with 131 votes, and Hurd, with 56, threw their support to Major .'
' Thatcher said she was "thrilled" by Major\'s victory, adding that he was her personal favorite among the three contenders .'
" Major becomes Britain's 18th prime minister and the youngest in this century ."
' His election ensures the unity of the fractured Conservative Party, which now has become the favorite to defeat the opposition Labor Party in the next general election.'
" Before Thatcher's resignation, the polls had been favoring Labor ."
' Appearing outside his official residence at No. 11 Downing St., next to the prime minister\'s, Major declared Tuesday evening, "We are going to unite totally and absolutely, and we are going to win the next election" .'
' "It is a very exciting thing to become leader of the Conservative Party, and particularly exciting, I think, to follow one of the most remarkable leaders the Conservative Party has ever had," Major said .'
' He complimented his rivals for a campaign based on "substance, not personality" .'
" When the results of Tuesday's vote were announced about 6:20 p.m., both Heseltine and Hurd said that they would vote for Major in the scheduled third runoff ballot on Thursday and advised their supporters to do the same ."
' Party leaders, however, waived the third ballot  which was expected to be unanimous  and Major was declared party leader .'
' After his appointment by the queen today, he is expected to name his Cabinet in a few days .'
' President Bush, en route to Washington after a visit to Mexico, telephoned Major from aboard Air Force One to congratulate him .'
' "The President said he looked forward to working with Major and to maintaining the special relationship" with Britain, said White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater .'
' In Washington, the State and Defense departments also welcomed the news .'
' "We\'re very glad that it\'s all settled, and that it was able to be settled so quickly," a State Department official said.'
' "We know John Major and expect to work well with him.'
' We don\'t expect any change in U.S.-U.K. relations" .'
' After Major\'s election, Thatcher declared that she wanted everyone "to rally behind him".'
' The prime minister had picked Major from among "backbenchers"  those who are not party leaders  as someone to watch several years ago and regarded him, aides said, as "a man of the people" .'
' With her support, he rose swiftly through the Department of Social Security and then the Treasury .'
' Thatcher will remain a member of the House of Commons, representing the Finchley section of London.'
' She and her husband, Denis, will move out of 10 Downing St. today to their house in the South London community of Dulwich .'
' Thatcher may accept a peerage in the House of Lords as a hereditary countess, friends said, since earldoms (the male equivalent) are the traditional award to former prime ministers.'
' That tradition was not followed by recent Labor prime ministers .'
' Major is a high school dropout who made his name in banking before winning a seat in the House of Commons in 1979 .'
" He has few enemies and is regarded as a leader who can unify the party and, associates said Tuesday night, lead the Tories to victory in the next election, which must be held within 18 months, at a time of the party's choosing ."
" He is not expected to introduce any major new policies but will take a more sympathetic view toward Britain's role in the European Community and has promised to review the controversial community charge, the so-called poll tax introduced by Thatcher ."
' Labor Party leader Neil Kinnock, who likely will face Major in the next national election, immediately labeled him "more of the same" in the Thatcher mold .'
' The Labor Party had expected to defeat an unpopular Thatcher in the next election .'
' Jack Cunningham, Labor\'s campaign coordinator, argued that Major\'s victory was that of the "Thatcher candidate" .'
" Cunningham pointed out that 187 members of Major's own party, a majority in the House of Commons, voted against him Tuesday ."
' That in a sense was true .'
' With 185 votes in the three-way race, Major did not gain as many as the 202 votes Thatcher won Nov. 20, when Heseltine was her sole opponent.'
' That vote  while she was in Paris attending the summit meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe  forced her into a runoff with Heseltine and ultimately cost her the party leadership .'
" But in that vote, under the party's complicated rules, she needed a majority plus 15% and she fell four votes short."
" In Tuesday's ballot, only a simple majority was needed to win outright ."
' The prime minister\'s downfall came after she had run into a stretch of unpopularity  partly through her authoritarian manner, partly because of inflation and high interest rates and partly because of her unpopular new "poll tax" .'
' She also appeared to take an anti-European attitude toward her 11 partners in the European Community, which caused her long-serving Cabinet colleague and deputy prime minister, Geoffrey Howe, to resign and deliver a witheringly critical resignation speech .'
' That speech led Heseltine, who had walked out of the Cabinet in 1984 in a dispute over how to aid of a defense contractor, to challenge Thatcher for the leadership in that first ballot last Tuesday .'
" The prime minister's failure to gain the necessary majority forced her to reassess her position."
' Her closest advisers reported that her support in the House of Commons was eroding, friends said, so she decided to resign rather than risk the humiliation of a defeat at the hands of one of her own colleagues .'
' At that point, on Thursday morning, both Major and Hurd, loyal members of her Cabinet, entered the race against Heseltine .'
' Many Tories in Parliament were angry at Heseltine for his role in bringing down Thatcher, who had won three national elections during her 15 years as Conservative Party leader .'
' Her 11 1/2-year tenure as prime minister was the longest in this century.'
' Her confrontational style of leadership won her many admirers at home and abroad  and many enemies, here and in the European Community .'
' During the past few days, Major picked up strength among his colleagues, as opinion polls showed him to be the next most popular Tory after Heseltine nationwide .'
' On Monday, Thatcher let it be known that she personally preferred Major to succeed her .'
' Some commentators feared that Thatcher\'s revelation of her choice might harm Major  with her comment Tuesday morning that she would make a "good back-seat driver".'
' Labor members called Major "Mrs.'
' Thatcher\'s poodle" .'
' But Major was the clear-cut victor in the balloting, held from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday in a House of Commons committee room .'
' After the results were announced, Heseltine declared that the election had been fought "without rancor and bitterness".'
' To "lay the basis for unity," he said, he would ask his supporters to vote for Major in the expected third ballot on Thursday, as he himself would do .'
' Soon afterward, Hurd did the same .'
' A third ballot seemed certain until Cranley Onslow, who heads the Conservative Party organization called the 1922 Committee, which supervised the party election, announced that another ballot would not be necessary and declared Major the party leader .'
" It was not immediately clear whether Hurd and Heseltine would join Major's Cabinet, though Major's aides indicated they would be offered roles in the government ."
' Conservative Party members of all hues were elated by the result and by the fact that the short campaign was conducted in the most gentlemanly fashion, with no blood on the floor .'
' The Labor Party, almost overnight, went from being the strong favorite in the next election to second place behind a Tory party led by Major.'
' Recent opinion polls had suggested that any new leader would greatly enhance Tory popularity .'
' Labor\'s Cunningham declared that the Conservatives\' lead was "a temporary blip" and promised "to fight an election as soon as he (Major) names a date" .'
' TORY ELECTION RESULTS'
' Despite being two votes short of a majority, John Major was elected leader of the ruling Conservative Party after his challengers conceded defeat.'
' He will bwcome prime minister when formally confirmed by the Queen .'
' John Major: 185'
' Michael Heseltine: 131'
' Douglas Hurd: 56'
' 187 votes needed to win'
' The Conservative Party holds 372 seats in the 650-seat Parliament'
' Photo, COLOR, British Chancellor of Exchequer John Major, with wife Norma, waves from his home at 11 Downing St.'
' Major, just elected leader of Conservative Party, will move next door as he becomes prime minister.'
' Reuters; Chart, TORY ELECTION RESULTS, AP/Los Angeles Times'
' Infobox'
' ENGLAND  POLITICS; CONSERVATIVE PARTY (ENGLAND); LEADERSHIP; POLITICAL CANDIDATES; POLLS; HESELTINE, MICHAEL; HURD, DOUGLAS; MAJOR, JOHN; THATCHER, MARGARET'
' LA122190-0149'
' 325991'
' December 21, 1990, Friday, P.M. Final'
' Part P; Page 1; Column 4; Late Final Desk'
' 288 words'
' BRITISH PRIME MINISTER TAKES HARD LINE ON IRAQ'
' From Associated Press'
' WASHINGTON'
' British Prime Minister John Major said today that Iraqi troops will have to be "forcibly removed" from Kuwait if President Saddam Hussein does not agree to withdraw them peacefully .'
' Major, just as unyielding in talking about Hussein as was his predecessor, Margaret Thatcher, rejected the notion that a partial Iraqi pullback from Kuwait would help bring about a solution to the crisis .'
' "A complete withdrawal is necessary, a partial withdrawal won\'t do," Major said in a display of solidarity with U.S. policy on the Persian Gulf .'
" On the gulf issue at least, Major's remarks augured well for his talks with President Bush late in the day at Camp David, the Maryland presidential retreat where the two leaders were planning an overnight stay ."
' Major, who arrived here Thursday night for a 40-hour visit, wasted no time in going on a rhetorical offensive against Hussein, using a succession of four television interviews aired shortly after dawn .'
' "If he stays in Kuwait, in a country which essentially at the moment is rather like a prison camp, a country that he\'s dismantling day after day, then he will have to be forcibly removed," Major said.'
' "I hope it won\'t come to that  everyone hopes it won\'t come to that  but it could" .'
' At the same time, Major demonstrated the kinder, gentler face he has brought to British politics since his accession, showing none of the abrasiveness that was a Thatcher hallmark.'
' In contrast to Thatcher, he was polite to reporters questioning him .'
' Comparing Major and Thatcher, one U.S. official said, "The biggest change is personal style" .'
' Consistent with the U.S. view on the gulf, Major said: "There is nothing whatsoever to negotiate about".'
' Hussein, he said, "has to go" .'
' Photo, Major meeting  British Prime Minister John Major, right, meets Secretary of State James A. Baker III.'
' Associated Press'
' Wire'
